The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about fundamental changes in various sectors, especially in the theaters which were halted for a long period as part of an effort to contain the spread of the virus. But people in the sector never stopped making new stories. Chinese director Zhang Hui is one of them. Her new stage drama "Stuck" finished performing in Guangzhou last week. "The pandemic has made me think a lot about our lives. And I do have so many ideas to share with my audiences. Part of my new drama is also set in the background of the pandemic," Zhang said in an interview with CGTN. The Chinese name of the stage drama is "Macédoine, Leftovers or Salad." The 100-minute drama consists of three separate stories. The first story is about an elderly widow who can't let go of her husband's sudden death for decades; the second story talks about a thief who tries to find the meaning of life and freedom; while the third story is a dumb show focusing on people's deep concerns over the exposure of privacy in modern society. "Literally, these three stories have nothing to do with each other. But if you put these three stories together, you can find something in common. I hope to leave the audience with an open answer," Zhang explained. Describing the drama is a "new challenge" that she "happily accepted," Zhang said that she was looking for something different. "I am so good at making stories that are logically complete in my previous dramas. This time, I want to do something that breaks the logic." During the interview, Zhang frequently mentioned "tolerance and respect for different ideas." That's also what she tries to convey in her new drama. "It's so common to see comments and ideas that go extreme online. That has made our lives so stressful. Through this drama, I hope to share my perspective that we should respect different ideas and do not judge others so easily," she said. The drama is Zhang's first as a playwright. For her, to experience lives of different people is the key inspiration for good stories. "Being a playwright is fulfilling for me. If there is no playwright, there'll be no stories. The most challenging part of being a playwright is how to portray a person that you've never seen in you daily life," "To make a play or drama, we can't just read books and watch artistic works. We have to communicate with different people, and try to think from their perspectives, even if you don't like them," Zhang further explained. (Cover imaged designed by Yu Peng)