The Carolina Panthers upset the Arizona Cardinals 34-10 at State Farm Stadium on Sunday in the first game since the return of Cam Newton. Newton played for the Panthers for nine seasons between 2011 and 2019, which were also the best years in his career. Though he didn't start for the team on Sunday, the 32-year-old veteran quarterback (QB) made an immediate contribution the moment he stepped onto the field. Early in the first quarter, Coach Matt Rhule called Newton's number, and the 2015 NFL MVP scored on a 2-yard carry to give Carolina a 7-0 lead. After scoring on his first touch in the game, Newton took off his helmet and yelled "I'm back!" to celebrate. That move cost him 15 yards as a penalty. The veteran's incredible performance didn't end there. Later, the Panthers drove to the 2-yard line again and Newton replaced starting QB P.J. Walker. This time, Newton used his arm and connected with wide receiver Robby Anderson for a TD. Newton passed for 8 yards and rushed for 14 yards on three carries. "No disrespect to them," he said after the game. "But I'm just floating at an all-time high frequency. It's almost scary." The Panthers signed Newton on Thursday as a substitute for Walker, who was the backup for Sam Darnold, who previously suffered a fractured scapula. Walker threw for 167 yards, no TDs and one interception. Things will grow interesting if the Panthers make Newton the starting QB in their next game against the Washington Football Team at home on November 21. Washington is coached by Ron Rivera, who also coached Newton during his nine seasons at the helm in Carolina. Jets come close to breaking awkward defensive record The Buffalo Bills walked over the New York Jets 45-17 at MetLife Stadium on Sunday, avoiding consecutive losses. Bills QB Josh Allen completed 21 of his 28 passes for two TDs while four of his teammates rushed for one TD each. The Jets' defense looked flimsy in front of the American Football Conference (AFC) East leader. The Jets have allowed 175 points in their past four games with a 1-3 record, the most points since the Tennessee Titans in 2004 (177 points). Seven teams this season have allowed 45 points, and the Jets have eclipsed that mark in their last three defeats. The last team with such a poor defensive performance was the New York Giants in 1966. Fairly speaking, the defensive line should not take all the blame because the Jets' offense was equally disappointing. Starting QB Mike White was only 24-44 in passing with no TDs, but allowed four interceptions, overloading his defensive teammates. "Every man should be embarrassed," defensive tackle Sheldon Rankins said. "Every man should be angry." Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Tampa Bay Buccaneers 19-29 Washington Football Team Atlanta Falcons 3-43 Dallas Cowboys New Orleans Saints 21-23 Tennessee Titans Jacksonville Jaguars 17-23 Indianapolis Colts Detroit Lions 16-16 Pittsburgh Steelers Cleveland Browns 7-45 New England Patriots Minnesota Vikings 27-20 Los Angeles Chargers Philadelphia Eagles 30-13 Denver Broncos Seattle Seahawks 0-17 Green Bay Packers Kansas City Chiefs 41-14 Las Vegas Raiders