With the opening of 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE), the "CIIE Bazaar" on East Nanjing Road in Shanghai ushered in a shopping boom. Rugs from Pakistan, lamps from Turkey, army knives from Swiss, and tea from Sri Lanka...more than 5,000 products from 40 countries and regions are on offer here, and consumers can buy these products from all over the world without going abroad. For most consumers, the six-day CIIE does not seem to have a strong sense of participation, but the CIIE Fair allows consumers to buy "exhibits" from previous and even this CIIE. It opened the fastest way to "turn exhibits at the CIIE into commodities". Nineteen national pavilions have been built in the bazaar, and there are also luxury and jewelry areas, CIIE cultural and creative products area, and international cuisine experience area. "Since it opened in April this year, the average daily sales of the CIIE Bazaar has exceeded 150,000 yuan (about $ 23,440), and the average daily passenger flow has exceeded 10,000,”Xue Yingjie, a staff member of the Greenland Group who built the CIIE Bazaar, introduced. "It went viral online and has become a popular place for citizens and tourists, and has also become a new window for foreign institutions in China to display their products," Xue added. Not only the passenger flow is large, but the sales volume of the CIIE Bazaar is also very impressive. During peak periods in holidays, it is common for overseas merchants to replenish goods three or four times a day, and some popular products are even sold by the second. "Wool tapestries are sold almost as soon as they are hung in the bazaar. Saffron sales also exceeded expectations, with each can sold every 10 seconds during peak hours," Bo Hai, a chief representative of the China-Iran International Handmade Art Center, said that handmade carpets, handicrafts, and Iranian specialty foods such as raisins and dates are favored by consumers. This year, Greenland has also built "CIIE Bazaar 2.0" in a big shopping mall called Greenland Trade Port just across the street from the National Convention and Exhibition Center. This year, 180 merchants from 76 countries and regions have settled in. With the support and authorization of relevant national organizations and business associations in China, the number of national pavilions in the port has reached 63. The newly opened 17 national pavilions including Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Croatia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Malta, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Uruguay, and Uzbekistan, have strong regional characteristics which were rarely seen in the Chinese market before.