Tottenham manager Antonio Conte said he has quickly realized the level of his squad is "not so high" after an embarrassing  2-1 loss to Slovenian minnows NS Mura in the Europa Conference League. Spurs will now likely have to beat Rennes at home in their final group game to avoid crashing out of Europe's third-tier competition. And they can no longer catch Rennes at the top of the group meaning they would progress to the last 32, while the group winners are parachuted into the last 16. Harry Kane started as one of just two players to be retained by Conte from Sunday's 2-1 win over Leeds in the Premier League, which had appeared to launch Conte's reign. However, the Italian was given an early lesson into the strength of his squad with an embarrassing night in Maribor against a club founded just nine years ago. "After three weeks I am starting to understand the situation. It is not simple," said Conte. "At this moment the level at Tottenham is not so high. I must be honest and tell you that after three-and-a-half weeks, I am starting to understand the situation. I can tell you that the situation is not simple." In the same competition, Jose Mourinho's Roma routed Zorya Luhansk 4-0 at Stadio Olimpico to stay in contention for the first place in their group. In the Europa League, West Ham clinched top spot in Group H with a game to spare with a 2-0 victory at Rapid Vienna. Andriy Yarmolenko headed in the opener in the 40th minute in Vienna and captain Mark Noble converted a spot kick in first-half injury time to put West Ham in control. Bayer Leverkusen also sealed a place in the round of 16 after coming back from 2-1 down to beat Celtic 3-2. Celtic were leading until Robert Andrich scored his second goal for Leverkusen in the 82nd minute, and Moussa Diaby hit a volley from the edge of the box past goalkeeper Joe Hart for the winner in the 87th off a cutback pass from young attacking midfielder Florian Wirtz. Leicester stayed on course to win their group after a 3-1 victory over Legia Warsaw in a game that saw Polish away fans clash with police in the stands. Patson Daka, James Maddison and Wilfred Ndidi all scored in the first half for Leicester. Mahir Emreli missed a penalty for Legia at 2-0 before Filip Mladenovic reduced the hosts' lead to 2-1. Leicester are one point ahead of Spartak Moscow and Napoli and play at the Italian club in the last round. Monaco won their group thanks to a 2-1 win over Real Sociedad, with all three goals scored in the span of 10 minutes in the first half. Alexander Isak answered Monaco's opener by Kevin Volland before Youssouf Fofana sealed the win. Already qualified for the next round, Lyon made it five wins from five after a 3-1 away victory at Brøndby. Rangers clinched second place in the group with a 2-0 win over Sparta Prague in Giovanni Van Bronckhorst's first game in charge.