The Golden State Warriors beat the Portland Trail Blazers 118-103 at Chase Center on Friday, claiming their sixth straight win and the 10th consecutive victory at home. The two teams shared something in common defensively: both preferred to double-team the opponents' playmaker outside the 3-point line. However, the Warriors have been doing this since 2015 and have one of the best big men for this trick, Draymond Green. By contrast, Jusuf Nurkic had spent his whole NBA career remaining in the paint to protect the rim until Chauncey Billups arrived and required the team to try the new defensive concept. The Trail Blazers' disadvantage did not end there. When Stephen Curry had to give the ball to his teammate to continue running offense, he could still distract at least one defender with off-ball movement and seek shooting opportunities via teammates' screens. Moreover, Green is a first-class passer, especially when his side had number advantage. Compared with the Warriors' smoothly operating system, the Blazers' offense was much rougher because Lillard has not been used to playing without the ball. Nor does the team have a reliable passer other than him or C.J. McCollum. Nurkic received many open or mismatch opportunities under the rim and scored 17 points in Friday's game, but he scoring the second-highest points of the team is precisely proof that something went seriously wrong with the Blazers' offense. While Nurkic went 6-8 under the rim to get 12 points in the paint, his teammates only got 30 there. By contrast, the Warriors scored 64 points in this area. They also led in rebounds (48-37), especially on the offensive glass (11-7). Neither side shot well enough to kill from downtown – Warriors 12-37, Blazers 13-38 – on Friday night, but does that mean 3-pointers failed to play an important role in this game? On the contrary, when everything seemed long gone for the Blazers which trailed 91-70 after the first three quarters, Anfernee Simmons drained three triples in Q4, forcing the Warriors to bring their starting squad back. Lillard added another two threes in this quarter too to make his stats look less ugly. In the end, Curry sealed the deal for the Warriors by making two straight 3-pointers from almost the same spot. He had 32 points, seven rebounds and eight assists at home and made at least five triples in 10 games so far this season. Lakers tired out in front of Kings after three OTs The Sacramento Kings defeated the Los Angeles Lakers 141-137 after three overtimes (OTs) at Staples Center on Friday. The purple and gold suffered their first OT loss this season after winning the previous four. De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield dominated the court in OTs by dropping 12 and 17 points. Hield made two triples and Fox was 4-7 in the middle range. The Kings also grabbed 16 offensive rebounds and turned them into 23 second-chance points, leading the Lakers in both. "There are guys this season that haven't played many minutes, but they are starting to give us a boost when called upon," Kings interim head coach Alvin Gentry said. "For us it takes a village and that's what we are trying to do. We continued to compete, plow our way back a little at a time and eventually took the lead." "It's been good to get the two wins but we are still climbing," Fox said. "We wanted to keep running and keep the pace up. We didn't have fresh legs out there, but they were young legs." The Lakers once led by as many as 13 points in the second half, but watched it vanish piece by piece. In fact, when the Kings were catching up, the home broadcaster pointed out that the last thing they want now is an OT. Why? Because the purple and gold have the oldest roster of the league with an average age of 30.6 years old. They are the only 30+year-old team too. Their "Big 3," LeBron James, Anthony Davis and Russell Westbrook, are 36, 28 and 33 respectively. In the first OT, the Lakers launched their offense by having James post up in the right elbow in nearly every possession. James still had enough stamina to charge the rim along the baseline, shoot fadeaways or find Westbrook who cut into the paint. Then in the second OT, James did not touch the ball in the front court until at 0:44. Having saved up some strength during this period, he could still made offensive contributions, but those legs of his that are one month away from 37 years old, could barely catch up with the young Kings. Having played 49:45 on Friday night, James dropped 30 points, seven rebounds and 11 assists. Westbrook had a triple-double of 29 points, 10 rebounds and 11 assists. Davis scored 23 points, eight rebounds, four assists, three steals and four blocks. Nonetheless, none of the above performance could keep their team's win rate from falling below .500 (10-11). Other games on Friday (away teams come first): Detroit Pistons 96-107 Los Angeles Clippers Minnesota Timberwolves 115-133 Charlotte Hornets Phoenix Suns 118-97 New York Knicks Chicago Bulls 123-88 Orlando Magic Toronto Raptors 97-114 Indiana Pacers Atlanta Hawks 132-100 Memphis Grizzlies Washington Wizards 101-99 Oklahoma City Thunder Milwaukee Bucks 120-109 Denver Nuggets New Orleans Pelicans 98-97 Utah Jazz