Noting the problems facing the world are intricate and complex, Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi on Friday pointed out the way out of them is through upholding multilateralism and building a community with a shared future for mankind. Yang, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, made his remarks during a virtual meeting with Abdulla Shahid, president of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) and foreign minister of the Maldives. At the invitation of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Shahid is paying an official visit to China. Yang said the Global Development Initiative proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping is another vivid practice of building a community with a shared future for mankind. He told the UNGA president that China will consistently adhere to the UN ideals support multilateralism and make new contributions to the cause of world peace and development together with other countries. Shahid, for his part, expressed his willingness to work with China to uphold multilateralism. The UNGA president extended his congratulation to the successful convening of the 19th Sixth Plenary Session of the CPC and voiced his support for the Global Development Initiative proposed by President Xi and for China hosting the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Wang on Friday met with Shahid in Anji County, east China's Zhejiang Province. President Xi's vision that "lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets" was first raised during his inspection in Anji County, Wang told Shahid, adding that this concept has become the consensus and action of the whole Chinese society. Under the framework of the United Nations, every country has equal status, every country's voice is important, and every country's vote is valid, Wang said. He stressed that engaging in small circles cannot solve their problems, not to mention global challenges. Wang said the UN should help maintain fairness and justice, rather than being an onlooker of hegemonism and bullying. It should be a major platform of multilateralism, instead of a battling field for major power games, and it should take actions to respond to challenges, rather than sitting idly by and doing nothing. On green development and climate change, Wang said the construction of ecological civilization has been written into the Constitution of the CPC and the nation's Constitution, becoming not only the national will of China, but also a solemn commitment of the ruling party to the people. Shahid congratulated China on the 50th anniversary of the restoration of its lawful seat at the UN, adding the 76th session of the UNGA is ready to enhance coordination with China to jointly maintain fairness and justice, practice multilateralism, respond to global challenges, and help safeguard the world body's authority and credibility. (With input from Xinhua)