The Golden State Warriors walked over the Brooklyn Nets 117-99 at the Barclays Center on Tuesday as Stephen Curry eclipsed the 2,900 mark for career 3-pointers. Curry went 12-19 in field goals (FGs) and 9-14 in triples to drop 37 points, seven rebounds, five assists and two steals. All of his first four attempts from downtown fell into the net. But that was not the most intimidating part of the Warriors' game on Tuesday. They led 35-18 in the third quarter, outscoring their opponents by dominant +124 points in Q3 so far this season. The second-best record is +77 and belongs to the Miami Heat. "So it's not the playoffs, but there's an intensity that you have to show up to beat a team like that," Curry said after the game. "You thrive off that competitive atmosphere, knowing that there's a lot of talent on the floor." The last time the Warriors beat the Nets was in November 2018, which was also the last season Kevin Durant played for the Warriors. The Warriors did it again three years later and this time Durant was wearing a Nets jersey. Durant had his worst performance this season on Tuesday, shooting 6-19 in FGs and 2-6 in triples to score 19 points, ending his streak of 20+ point games at 14 since the season started. He was 0-8 in Q3 and only scored three points via free throws. Though James Harden drained two 3-pointers to score 10 points in this quarter, the Nets went 5-22 in FGs in this quarter. Such an offensive underperformance was why they watched the Golden State lead grow from 13 to 22 even after Curry was called for his fourth personal foul and only played four minutes in Q3. "They got long defenders, guys that can help, so seeing bodies all the time when I had the ball, that's what great defenses do. And then some shots I wish I could've had back," Durant said. "I rushed a few once we got down 15, 20. I'm trying to get it back so fast you end up taking bad shots and rushed shots." "I just don't think we're in that category yet," Nets head coach Steve Nash said. "We got a lot of work to do ... I think the guys have been great as far as buying into what we want to do defensively. No one would have picked us as a top-10 defense to start the year." He might have a fair point about defense, but no one expects a team that has Durant and Harden to win on defense. Both have explosive enough offensive firepower to lead a team to victory by himself, not to mention by working together. However, that's only theoretical because the cruel fact for the Nets today is that their offense can hardly operate without Durant playing like an MVP. Until Nash has his coaching ideas straightened out or Harden finds a new reliable offensive formula, the Nets may have a tough time ahead. The other two games on Tuesday ended with wide margins as well. The Utah Jazz beat the Philadelphia 76ers 120-85 at Vivint Arena. The home team did not see any of their guys play for 30 minutes on Tuesday. But that did not stop them from scoring 30, 33 and 34 points respectively in the first three quarters and leading in every quarter. Tobias Harris continued to appear on the floor for the 76ers, making sure that the team had at least one of their "Big 3." But he was obviously not in his best form, going 4-9 in FGs to get only 12 points. That's probably why the 76ers were unable to score even 20 points after the first quarter. The Los Angeles Clippers achieved a big win of 106-92 over the San Antonio Spurs at Staples Center. The game could have entered garbage time earlier if Paul George and Reggie Jackson had not missed 19 attempts beyond the arc, or the team had not committed 21 turnovers. Of course, both made key contributions to the victory on Tuesday anyway. George was basically unstoppable if he didn't have to dribble too much or shoot 3-pointers. He had 34 points, nine rebounds and four assists while going 12-13 at the free throw line. A lot could be said about Jackson taking 17 threes, but it was the two 3-pointers he made in Q4 that sealed the deal for the Clippers. Neither the Clippers nor the Los Angeles Lakers will play at Staples Center after Christmas, because the venue will be renamed Crypto.com Arena on December 25. The naming rights reportedly cost the new sponsor $700 million.