Visitors may be surprised at what they could find at the Beijing Olympic Museum these days: perhaps a wristband Usain Bolt wore during the Summer Olympic Games in Beijing in 2008, or a painting depicting ancient Chinese people participating in sports competitions among other interesting things. With the 2022 Winter Olympics just a little over two months away, the museum worked with the Beijing Olympic City Development Association to launch a new campaign, calling for people around the world to donate more memorabilia from both Beijing 2008 and the upcoming Winter Games. "Under the leadership of the municipal government, we will help upgrade the Beijing Olympic Museum. Collecting valuable items about the 2008 Summer Games and the 2022 Winter Games, and enriching the exhibition contents of the museum is an important task in the upgrade and renovation," Jiang Xiaoyu, Vice President of Beijing Olympic City Development Association, said at the launch event of the collecting campaign. The museum has already received the first batch of items, including a painting of Olympic emblem done completely with Chinese ancient drawing style, and a wine vessel with Olympic elements. People interested in making donations can find more details on the museum's official website. Once application is submitted, the memorabilia selection process will be done by an expert judging panel of the museum, and the selected items will be displayed in one of three types of exhibits. "There are three different kinds of exhibitions at our museum. The general exhibition is for our main collections. The special category exhibition focuses on one particular area, for example, track and field. And temporary exhibitions are held once in a while under special themes," Hou Ming, director of Beijing Olympic Museum, said. This collection campaign will last for about one year. The organizers say they hope it will not only preserve a piece of history from the Summer and Winter Games in Beijing, but also help promote the Olympic spirit globally.