China Media Group (CMG) held an online forum on Tuesday in tandem with three major Argentine media outlets to mark the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries. Over 10 experts and media representatives from China and Argentina conducted in-depth exchanges on the theme "China's development and Sino-Argentine cooperation." CMG President Shen Haixiong and Argentine Foreign Minister Santiago Cafiero delivered speeches at the forum titled "Foro Virtual Panorama China-Argentina." Shen said China and Argentina enjoy a long history of friendship, and China's proposals of the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road have opened a new chapter in the joint development of the two countries over the years. Under the leadership of the two heads of state, both countries have worked together to strengthen the comprehensive strategic partnership, he said. Shen noted that during the time of COVID-19, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Argentine President Alberto Fernandez exchanged letters and phone calls on multiple occasions, reaching consensus on deepening bilateral ties and jointly fighting the pandemic. "In recent years, the media cooperation between China and Argentina has achieved remarkable results and the relationship has become closer, playing an important role in enhancing the friendship between the two peoples and deepening bilateral cooperation," he said. "Argentina and China enjoy increasingly close friendly relations and fruitful cooperation in various fields," said Cafiero. He pointed out that in February next year, Argentina and China will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties, and this will be an excellent opportunity to showcase the achievements of complementary and win-win cooperation in diplomacy, culture, economy, trade, finance, science and technology. "The bilateral relations between Argentina and China will enjoy a more solid future. The media cooperation and exchanges between the two countries will help enhance mutual understanding between the two peoples and the development of bilateral relations," he said. CGTN Espanol, the Spanish channel of the CMG, will broadcast the forum's highlights while the entire event will be broadcast on new media platforms.