A night curfew will be re-imposed in the Solomon Islands' capital of Honiara after Australian police began taking control of hotspots following three days of violent protests against the government of the South Pacific island nation, Reuters reported on Friday, citing witnesses. The Ministry of Health said in a statement that city clinics were closed and urged "all Honiara residents involved in arson, rioting, looting to please stop immediately" after its ambulances were stoned. Tear gas was deployed in Chinatown, where looting and the burning of buildings had continued on Friday morning, a resident told Reuters. A night curfew would begin at 7 p.m. on Friday, the Royal Solomon Islands Police Force said in a statement. The Solomon Islands' Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare, who requested help from Australia, said on Friday that foreign powers are responsible for encouraging anti-government protests in the nation, but did not name any. The rioters looted various areas of Honiara. The Chinatown area suffered the heaviest damage with most shops looted and burned, Tan Jingquan, secretary of the Solomon Islands Chinese Association, told the Global Times on Thursday. Over 100 shops owned by Chinese nationals have been ruined, and all are feeling anxious and afraid right now, Tan added. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Thursday that it's gravely concerned over the attacks on Chinese citizens and enterprises there, and the ministry has asked the local government to take all measures necessary to protect the safety of Chinese nationals and institutions. He also said China supports the government's efforts to end violence and chaos, and it's confident that under Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare's leadership, the government of Solomon Islands can restore social order and stability soon. Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said Australia was sending 100 police personnel and was "clearly focused on stability in our region." (With input from agencies)