The Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Detroit Pistons 121-116 at Little Caesars Arena on Sunday, putting an end to their three-game losing streak. The Pistons, which entered the game with a 4-11 record, were hardly strong opponents. Neither did they have a full-size center because Kelly Olynyk was still trying to recover from a sprained left knee. However, they were still able to give the Lakers a hard time on the floor and once led by as many as 17 points. Cade Cunningham and Cory Joseph kept exploiting screens to drive into the purple and gold's paint. Coach Frank Vogel decided to put DeAndre Jordan back into the starting lineup after watching his small-ball roster lose four of the past five games, but the 33-year-old Jordan was too slow to stop Cunningham, who does not really have elite athleticism, from charging the rim. Jerami Grant made the Lakers' defense even more miserable by shooting at 4-4 from downtown in the second quarter, during which the Pistons led 42-31. The turning point of the game for the visiting team happened in the third quarter with the ejections of LeBron James and Isaiah Stewart. James (accidentally) hit Stewart's right eye when they were tussling for rebounding position. Stewart stood up angrily and with blood all over his face. Both teams immediately gathered together and a brawl nearly ensued. In the end, James was ejected with a flagrant foul 2 and Stewart was sent out with two technical fouls. Russell Westbrook also earned a technical, but the absence of James seemed to give him a free hand. Westbrook dominated the floor in the last quarter to get 15 points, five rebounds and six assists. The ball kept moving between him and Anthony Davis, who got 12 points, four rebounds, three assists, two steals and three blocks, and the Pistons were clueless at how to slow them down, especially when Carmelo Anthony drained two 3-pointers to stir up more trouble. The Lakers reversed the situation with a 37-17 run in Q4 to pocket the win. "Everyone in the league knows LeBron's not a dirty guy," Davis said of the clash. "In fact, when he knew he hit him, as soon as he did it, he looked back at him like, 'Oh, my bad. I didn't try to do it.'" "It was a tough play with Isaiah," Pistons head coach Dwane Casey said. "His eye got cracked all the way open, and he was upset for a reason. So, I don't think James is a dirty player, but again, it got them going." Warriors walk over Raptors at home The Golden State Warriors had an easy win over the Toronto Raptors 119-104 at Chase Center on Sunday, achieving their fourth consecutive win. Stephen Curry, who returned after resting for one game, had a career low in scoring (12 points), triples made (one) and field goals (FGs) made (two) at home on Sunday. But that didn't seem to bother the Warriors too much, as Jordan Poole and Andrew Wiggins carried the team to victory with dominant performances. Wiggins went 12-20 in FGs and 6-8 in triples to get 32 points, six rebounds and three assists while Poole was 10-13 in FGs and 8-11 in triples to score 33 points, four rebounds and four assists. Their excellent work ensured that the Warriors did not trail in any of the four quarters and led by 21 points at most. "The scoring balance means that teams can't throw everything at Steph," Warriors head coach Steve Kerr said. "That's what was happening last year. Teams were throwing everything they had at Steph." It took the team 28 games to get 15 wins last season, 11 more than it did this time. Their .882 winning percentage (15-2) will not last forever, especially when they are playing against the Philadelphia 76ers, Portland Trail Blazers, Los Angeles Clippers and Phoenix Suns in the upcoming games. But at least the Warriors are on the right track before Klay Thompson comes back. Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Dallas Mavericks 91-97 Los Angeles Clippers New York Knicks 103-109 Chicago Bulls Denver Nuggets 97-126 Phoenix Suns