Chinese Premier Li Keqiang called for efforts to optimize the business environment and ensure electricity supply during an inspection tour in Shanghai from Monday to Tuesday. As the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade deal will take effect on January 1 next year, Li stressed that China will "open its door wider to the world." When inspecting the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, he acknowledged its institutional innovations in investment, trade and finance, and encouraged it to continue to experiment and gain new experiences. At an industrial park of smart manufacturing companies, he learned about the research and development of high-end intelligent equipment and exchanged ideas with executives from foreign companies. "China will open its door wider to the world and strictly protect intellectual property rights so that more foreign companies can invest and do business in China with confidence," he said. Chinese companies should make good use of the opportunities presented by better trade and investment liberalization and facilitation as provided by the implementation of the RCEP to expand win-win cooperation, he said. Signed on November 15, 2020, the 15-member RCEP is the world's largest free trade agreement covering about 30 percent of the world's population. Its economic and trade volume also accounts for 30 percent of the world's total. During a visit to a power generation company in Shanghai, Li said that efforts should be made to ensure electricity supply for people's livelihood and production orders. He also called for promoting the clean and efficient use of coal amid efforts in green and low-carbon development. China has made various efforts to ensure power supply across the country after power outages halted factory production and hit families in some regions in September. The power shortages were caused by a combination of factors, including the country's heavy reliance on coal, the instability of clean power, and surging production activities bolstered by pent-up demand amid economic recovery, according to officials and industry analysts. At a local employment promotion center, Li urged participants of a training session to enhance their skills to be better prepared for jobs. He also asked about the difficulties facing smaller companies in the market and promised policies to address the concerns of market entities. Acknowledging Shanghai's social and economic development achievements, the premier urged the city to continue to take the lead in reform and opening-up and innovations, and contribute more to the country's development. (With input from Xinhua)