The 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) held a press conference on Friday to introduce the guiding principles of its sixth plenary session. The spirit of the meeting shows that the cultural confidence of China has increased significantly. "Culture is the soul of a country," Wang Xiaohui, deputy head of the Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee, pointed out and referred to the achievements of cultural construction in the new era. "Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era has won widespread support," Wang said. "China has always adhered to the fundamental system of Marxism's guiding role in the field of ideology, which is also the fundamental system in the field of culture." Along with the spread of "Xi Jinping Thought", mainstream ideology and public opinion are being consolidated and strengthened, core socialist values are widely promoted. A series of grand celebrations and commemorative activities have been organized around important historical milestones as the 100th anniversary of the founding of the CPC, the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, and the 40th anniversary of the reform and opening-up, which have made people deeply feel that today's happiness has not come easily. In addition to these celebrations and commemorative activities, China conferred honors on national heroes and heroines, selected and commended a large number of moral models, role models to leading the way. China has taken a people-centered approach, and vigorously promoted literary and artistic creation. A number of excellent works have been released, including films "My People, My Country", "The Battle at Lake Changjin", and TV dramas such as "The Awakening Age". The cultural needs of the people have been better met. In addition to film and television works, China actively promotes urban and rural public cultural service system, with the construction of national parks including the Great Wall, the Grand Canal, the Long March and the Yellow River, providing people with more nutritious "spiritual food." With a broader view, China's stories are actively told to the world. Wang fully affirmed the achievements saying that "China's voice and influence in the world have significantly increased."