Various facilities of the villages for Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics are set to serve the athletes, coaches and officials for a total of 53 days at the three competition zones of Beijing, Yanqing and Zhangjiakou. The facilities of the Olympic Village will start trial operation on January 23, 2022, before official opening on January 27 and closing on February 23, and those of the Paralympics Village will begin trial operation on February 23, before official opening on February 25 and closing on March 16, the Beijing Major Projects Construction Headquarters Office said on Wednesday. The construction of the village facility in the Beijing competition zone started on September 27, 2018 and was completed on June 26, 2021. Its operations pressure test took place on November 9, which will be followed by all-factor tests on November 20 and 21. Located south of the National Olympic Sports Center, the Beijing Olympic and Paralympic Village consists of 20 buildings spread over a construction area of about 330,000 square meters. It can accommodate 2,338 participants for the Olympics and 1,040 participants for the Paralympics, also offering catering and medical services. Moreover, the Olympic Village facility in Zhangjiakou zone has been classified as Level 3, the highest level by the national Evaluation Standard for Green Building. It has 10 courtyards and 31 buildings with 1,668 apartments and 2,737 beds. Meanwhile, the village facility in Yanqing competition zone has been undergoing various tests as well, and rightly so since a range of advanced technologies are being used in it. Its main structure uses ultra-low power technology for a comfortable environment by maintaining the indoor temperature between 20 and 26 degrees Celsius and relative humidity between 30 and 60 percent. Besides, it also adopts passive house windows that have a lower heat transfer coefficient, perform better in thermal insulation, and consume less energy. Not only this village is high-tech, but also nature friendly. During its construction, the surrounding natural environment was preserved to the maximum extent. In addition, by building sunken greenbelts, infiltration ditches and rainwater storage ponds, this village facility can treat rainwater and sewage for recycling. Using a range of advanced technologies and undergoing various tests, the villages will provide an ideal place for athletes to rest during Beijing 2022. Read more: A peek at the Winter Olympic Village for Beijing 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics: Robots help protect participants against COVID-19 (With input from agencies)