Editor's note: Sultan M Hali is a Pakistani writer and security analyst. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The Communist Party of China (CPC), at the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee held in Beijing from November 8 to 11, adopted a landmark resolution on the major achievements and historical experience of the CPC's 100 years of endeavors. The resolution reiterates the solemn vow of the CPC to make tireless efforts to realize the second centenary goal and the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. It is heartening that the CPC, which in July 2021, crossed the important milestone of completing the centenary since its foundation, has much to celebrate in terms of achievements. Since its founding in 1921, the Party has made seeking happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation its primary mission. The first generation of leadership under Mao Zedong, adapting the basic tenets of Marxism-Leninism to China's specific realities, established Mao Zedong Thought, which charted the correct course for securing victory in the new democratic revolution. Implementing a series of important theories for socialist construction, China was transformed from a poor and backward Eastern country with a large population to a socialist country. The second generation, with Deng Xiaoping as the CPC's chief representative, focused on the fundamental questions of what socialism is and how to build it and established the Deng Xiaoping Theory. During this new period of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization, adopted after the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, the CPC led the path to economic revival, scientific achievements, industrialization and rapid development. The third generation, led by Jiang Zemin, after the fourth plenary session of the 13th Central Committee, CPC deepened the understanding of what socialism is and how to build it, and what kind of Party to build and how to build it. On this basis, this era saw the formation of the Theory of Three Represents, while socialism with Chinese characteristics was successfully launched into the 21st century. The fourth generation under the leadership of Hu Jintao traversed the path of the Chinese nation advancing in practical, theoretical and institutional innovation during the process of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and formed the Scientific Outlook on Development. This epoch witnessed the CPC succeeding in upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics under new circumstances. The fifth generation of leaders, which took the mantle of leadership at the CPC's 18th National Congress, under its new general secretary Xi Jinping as its chief representative, established Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. This period has witnessed fresh challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic, which shook the entire world. But China is leading the path, boldly combating the deadly virus, protecting the Chinese nation and lending a helping hand to the rest of the world. Major economic giants are tottering and reeling under the impact of the coronavirus. But China, under the steady guidance of the CPC led by President Xi, has not only steadied the boat but also ensured that less-developed nations also survive and progress. Despite the trials and tribulations of this period, the CPC achieved its first centenary goal well before the stipulated target, which is nothing short of a miracle. The CPC's strength lies in its leadership reviewing history, making critical analysis, accepting mistakes, if any, and applying course correction to achieve the desired goals of development and progress. While other nations' road to industrialization achieved fruition after centuries of struggle, China, under the robust and sound policies of the CPC, managed to secure the transformation of its society from an impoverished nation into a moderately prosperous country in a matter of decades. No wonder the Party and the people have reposed confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping, establishing his core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole, defining the guiding role of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. The remarkable aspect of this assurance in China's paramount leader reflects the common will of the CPC, its armed forces and the Chinese nation comprising all ethnic groups, and is of decisive significance for advancing the cause of the Party and the country in the new era and for driving forward the historic process of national rejuvenation. The raison d'être of the CPC appears to have progressed to Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and become the Marxism of contemporary China and the 21st century since it embodies the best of the Chinese culture and ethos in current times and represents a new breakthrough in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context. Sometimes, the West, which fails to comprehend China's unique system of governance, tries to draw parallels to its own system. It misses the factor that the CPC has gone through a sea change of evolution, drawing its strength from formulating a system that is unique to the Chinese nation and is willing to analyze, self-correct and move on to achieve optimum results. The proof is for the world to see in the strides CPC has realized in nearly all development and growth parameters while maintaining its links with its rich culture, tradition, and ancient wisdom. It is this factor that earns the CPC the respect of not only the Chinese nation but also most of its neighbors, who benefit from the vision of the Party in taking them along on the path of progress and establishing peace, order and the urge to shed the shackles of poverty and deprivation. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)