Three more Chinese projects have been granted world irrigation project heritage status, China's Ministry of Water Resources announced on Friday. The Liyunhe Gaoyou irrigation area in Jiangsu Province, the Liaohe irrigation area in Jiangxi Province, and the Sagya ancient water storage and irrigation system in Tibet Autonomous Region were added to the global list at the 72nd meeting of the International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID), the ministry said. China now has 26 world irrigation engineering heritage sites. The Sagya water storage and irrigation system in Shigatse City in southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, has an average elevation above 4,000 meters. It is the highest of the sites on the global list. The Liyunhe Gaoyou irrigation area originated from Hangou Ditch, during the Spring and Autumn period (770-476 BC). Through sluice, hole, pass, dam and other hydraulic facilities, it connects Gaoyou Lake and Gaoyou irrigation area, taking into account irrigation and water transport two functions. This made it a model for connecting river and lake systems in ancient China. Liaohe irrigation area in Jiangxi Province is a typical ancient water diversion irrigation system project in Jiangnan hilly area, since Ming and Qing Dynasties (1368-1912). "China's world irrigation engineering heritage sites covers almost all types of irrigation engineering," said Chen Mingzhong, president of Chinese National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage and director-general of the department of Rural Water and Hydropower of China's Ministry of Water Resources. "It's the country with the most abundant irrigation engineering heritage types, the most extensive distribution and the most prominent irrigation benefits," said Chen. Sixteen projects from India, Iraq, Japan, Morocco, South Korea and Sri Lanka were also included in the eighth batch of the world irrigation project heritage list at the ICID meeting.Established in 1950, the ICID is an international organization that seeks to boost scientific and technological exchange on irrigation, drainage and flood control. The WHIS award, set up by the ICID in 2014, aims to protect and promote irrigation projects of historical value and their scientific experience. A total of 121 ancient irrigation projects around the world have been listed so far.