Intravenous antibody drugs will soon become another approved medical weapon against COVID-19 in China. A wonder drug, while being reviewed by Chinese regulators, already seen compassionate use in more than 800 COVID-19 patients across the country. "The safety and efficacy profile from the three clinical trials has supported the 'emergency use' status," said Zhang Linqi, leader of the research team from Tsinghua University, noting the use was granted by the National Health Commission and the Ministry of Science and Technology. "So, we are very confident of obtaining full approval soon." They call it "cocktail therapy," developed by selecting two monoclonal antibodies that inhibit the virus from infecting healthy cells, could now reduce hospitalizations and mortality by 78 percent. "The cocktail antibodies can target different virus sites, even when mutated," said Zhang, professor of Tsinghua's School of Medicine. "We have also modified the antibodies to extend their half-lives." After one shot, according to Zhang, the cocktail can exist in the human body for about nine to 12 months. Researchers from Peking University have also discovered what they call a single "super antibody." Their neutralizing antibody medicine has proven to be effective against all current variants and has already seen compassionate use in Beijing. "It has high potency, we can use less [antibodies]," said Xie Xiaoliang, professor of School of Life Science in Peking University, adding it's at least one third of the price of the previous pairs. "But most importantly, it would not be escaped [from the virus]," said Xie. He is also the tenured professor at Harvard University. While researchers are keen on these biological macro-molecular drugs that can also be used for prevention purposes, Chinese pharmaceutical companies are pushing to test small-molecular compound drugs in clinical trials. "I think both of them should be pushed," Xie said, referring to small molecule drugs' convenience to use at a large scale. "Usually, they have more side effects than the antibody because antibodies are natural," Xie added. "But that will need to be proved through the safety test." Clinical trials in China for COVID drugs could be slower, given China's effective control measures and lack of sufficient patients. In addition, they also need to undergo trials overseas. But, experts say, once authorized, COVID drugs will complement vaccines in efforts to beat the pandemic.