Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday urged the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to secure the release of kidnapped Chinese nationals as soon as possible. Wang made the remarks during a meeting with Christophe Lutundula, deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs of the DRC, on the sidelines of the 8th Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Dakar, Senegal. A group of unknown gunmen attacked a mining company in eastern DRC and kidnapped five Chinese nationals on November 21. The Chinese embassy in the DRC confirmed the attack and the abduction. Local media reported another attack involving Chinese nationals in the country a few days later, in which two Chinese nationals were killed and several went missing. Wang urged the DRC to take resolute and effective measures to eliminate hidden dangers, better protect Chinese citizens in the country and create a safe, secure and stable environment for bilateral cooperation. Lutundula said the DRC attaches great importance to China's concerns and will take a responsible attitude and forceful measures to investigate the crimes, secure the freedom of the kidnapped and severely punish the culprits, and safeguard national security and restore stability to the eastern parts of the DRC. Wang also said China appreciates the DRC's resolve in pursuing a policy of friendly relations with Beijing, and stands ready to strengthen solidarity, enhance mutual trust and expand cooperation, so as to help the DRC translate its strengths in resources into advantages and strong momentum for the country's economic development. Describing China as the DRC's most important cooperation partner, Lutundula said the DRC cherishes its friendship with China, and will, as always, firmly support China's endeavors in safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Wang: China ready to help Africa achieve faster development During his meeting with Minister of International Cooperation of the Republic of the Congo Denis Christel Sassou Nguesso, Wang said China stands ready to be the Republic of the Congo's most reliable partner in its development and rejuvenation, and supports the country in enhancing its capacity for independent development and realizing diversified development. Christel said the cooperation between the Republic of the Congo and China on the Belt and Road Initiative is of high quality and fruitful, adding that the industrial capacity cooperation between the two countries serves as a model for China-Africa cooperation. China's development strengthens the forces for peace and progress, contributes to the overall growth of developing countries, and is supported by the vast majority of African countries, Wang said.   China is ready to strengthen solidarity and cooperation with African countries to help Africa achieve faster development and jointly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries, he said. The Chinese diplomat also met with Tunisian Foreign Minister Othman Jerandi, Burkina Faso's Foreign Minister Alpha Barry, Uganda's Minister of Foreign Affairs Jeje Odongo, Angolan Minister of Foreign Affairs Tete Antonio and Mauritanian Foreign Minister Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed on the sidelines of the 8th Ministerial Conference of the FOCAC on Monday. (With input from Xinhua) (Cover: Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi (R) meets with Christophe Lutundula, deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in Dakar, Senegal, November 29, 2021. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)