A long-range Leroy Sane strike fired Bayern Munich back to the top of the Bundesliga table on Saturday after the defending champions were briefly overtaken by Borussia Dortmund. Sane's goal sealed a 1-0 victory over strugglers Arminia Bielefeld, who kept Bayern at bay for the opening 70 minutes at the Allianz Arena. Sane netted for the ninth time this season as Bayern, chasing a 10th straight Bundesliga title, restored their one-point advantage over Dortmund. Diogo Jota's early double set Liverpool on their way to a crushing 4-0 home victory over Southampton to move up to second place in the Premier League standings on Saturday. The Portuguese forward steered home Andrew Robertson's cut-back to open the scoring after 97 seconds – the fastest Premier League goal this season – before his tap in following fine work from Mohamed Salah made it 2-0 inside 32 minutes. Midfielder Thiago Alcantara added to his stunning goal against Porto in the Champions League in midweek with a third five minutes later and Virgil van Dijk helped himself to a fourth against his former club early in the second half. Barcelona defeated Villarreal 3-1 on Saturday as they won away for the first time this season and handed new coach Xavi Hernandez a second successive La Liga triumph. Memphis Depay calmly went around goalkeeper Geronimo Rulli to score a dramatic 88th-minute goal that restored their lead and Philippe Coutinho added a stoppage-time penalty as Barcelona advanced to 23 points, seven behind leaders Real Madrid. Villarreal had fought back through Samuel Chukwueze to equalize after 76 minutes after Frenkie de Jong's early second-half effort had seen Barcelona open the scoring. Barcelona's victory followed a fortuitous 1-0 win over Espanyol last week in Xavi's coaching debut and a goalless draw with Benfica in the Champions League in midweek. "We dominated less than I expected, but in the end we found the goal with Memphis. They are three golden points. You also have to be lucky. Villarreal did not deserve to lose," Xavi said. Inter Milan moved to within one point of the Serie A summit on Saturday thanks to a 2-0 win over Venezia, while Duvan Zapata piled on the misery for Juventus, who are reeling from a probe into their accounts. Hakan Calhanoglu continued his fine recent form in the 34th minute when he collected the ball and fizzed the opening goal through a crowd of players, and Lautaro Martinez added the second from the penalty spot deep in stoppage time. Inter have won seven of their last nine matches in all competitions – drawing the other two – and are on a high after ensuring passage to the Champions League last 16 after a decade away midweek. "The only negative thing was that we should have scored the second goal earlier," said Inter coach Simone Inzaghi. Atalanta strengthened their hold on fourth place and Serie A's final Champions League spot thanks to Colombian Zapata's seventh goal in the 28th minute to secure their 1-0 victory over Juventus in Turin. Atalanta are six points ahead of their closest rivals for fourth spot Roma, while Juventus sit a further point back in eighth after the latest uninspiring display, which led to them being whistled off by furious fans who watched their team lose for the fifth time this league season. Massimiliano Allegri's Juventus have only scored 18 goals in their 14 league matches, the lowest total in Serie A's top 10. Juve's defeat came after a difficult week in which they were humiliated by European champions Chelsea on November 23 and then had police search their offices on November 26 as part of a probe into suspicious player transfers. Juve confirmed late on Saturday that chairman Andrea Agnelli was among the current and former directors under investigation for "false accounting" and "issuance of invoices or other documents for non-existent transactions." Prosecutors in Turin had announced on November 26 the police search over what Sky Sport Italia report are some 282 million euros ($319.2 million) of suspect capital gains from transfer deals. (With input from agencies)