The United States and the Taiwan region have recently doubled down on their perilous "Taiwan independence" game. First, Secretary of State Antony Blinken expressed U.S. support for "Taiwan's meaningful participation in the UN system." Then, Tsai Ing-wen, the leader of the Taiwan region, confirmed in an interview that U.S. troops are present on the island. And now, several U.S. lawmakers paid a "sneaky" visit to Taiwan on a military plane... What's ironic is that when the U.S. encouraged Taiwan to join the UN system, it simultaneously claimed that this was consistent with the one-China policy. Furthermore, according to U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, the U.S. government is not seeking a fundamental transformation of the Chinese system and opposes any unilateral action that would alter the status quo across the Taiwan Straits. U.S. duplicity on Taiwan is unparalleled! This is not the first time that the U.S. has been caught red-handed double-dealing on the Taiwan issue. In early August, the U.S. government approved a $750 million arms sale to Taiwan. And yet, since the new administration took office, it has repeatedly vowed to adhere to the one-China policy and to not support "Taiwan independence." According to the China-U.S. Joint Communiqués, the U.S. government intends to reduce its arms sales to Taiwan, leading over time to a final resolution. U.S. backtracking and self-contradiction have blemished its political credibility and international image. In Uncle Sam's "house of cards," the South China Sea, Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Taiwan have always been their aces in the hole. But following the enactment of the National Security Law for Hong Kong, the U.S. has forever lost this card, causing it to tighten its grip on the remaining ones. However, sometimes the tighter the grip, the quicker the loss. Taiwan has been an inalienable part of China's territory since ancient times. The dinghy carrying separatists seeking "Taiwan independence" with U.S. support will only capsize on the raging tide of history. Only by boarding the massive vessel built by the entirety of the Chinese people through national reunification can cross-strait and China-U.S. relations be expected to move forward steadily and safely. Credits: Scriptwriter: Yuan Xin Senior producer: Wei Wei Managing director: Mei Yan (To submit cartoons and share story ideas or feedback on our cartoon page, please contact us at cartoon_opinions@cgtn.com)