Beijing will host the China Internet Civilization Conference on November 19. Themed "Gather Strength for Good Deeds, Jointly Build Internet Civilization," the event will be the first one in the country systematically discussing cyberspace security and civilization. In recent years, digital civilization is taking on increasing importance as the Chinese government focuses on constructing a clean, safe and robust cyber environment. "We would like to establish a platform to promote the important idea of cyber-civilization construction. This is a good opportunity for China and the international community to exchange experience, concepts, and boost cooperation," said Sheng Ronghua, deputy director at the Office of Central Cyberspace Affairs Commission and Cyberspace Administration of China, during the presser on the event. The Chinese internet industry has entered a new era. The digital economy made up 38.6 percent of China's GDP in 2020. Besides the economic achievements, there's now more attention on digital culture, cybersecurity and tech firms' social responsibilities. The conference features seven subforums, with topics ranging from internet ecology and young netizen cultivation to internet charity, data and algorithm and platform economy. Based on the seven subtopics, the conference brings together the strengths of a wide cross-section of society to jointly build a civilized cyberspace. Mo Gaoyi, director-general of the Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China Beijing Municipal Committee, said Beijing is ready to welcome all participants, online and offline. "The city aims to provide a very productive venue for officials, scholars, the private sector and netizen representatives to communicate," he said. Given the COVID-19 resurgence and potential risks, the conference will set strict rules and pandemic control measures. Virtual access is available for visitors who are interested in the subforums. Netizens can also join the event to discuss cyberculture, digital user values and internet civilization with experts.