The Indianapolis Colts beat the Buffalo Bills 41-15 at Highmark Stadium on Sunday, lifting their win rate over .500 (6-5) for the first time this season. Colts running back (RB) Jonathan Taylor made the best contributions to the Colts' victory by rushing for 185 yards and five touchdowns (TDs) via 32 carries, the most of his career. Taylor became the 18th player in NFL history to achieve five TDs in one game. "It meant a lot. I mean, that's something that we're going to have to do if we want to get to where we want to go at the end of the year," Taylor said. "We're going to have to be able to put games away in the fourth quarter, we're going to have to put points up." "He's sending a message to the league," Taylor's teammate Nyheim Hines said. "It's been amazing watching him play. Great to watch him finish runs and make people miss. He's a complete back ... If there's any skill position [for MVP], Jonathan Taylor needs to be in it. Him and [Los Angeles Rams receiver] Cooper Kupp. JT is the first in line for a non-quarterback player." There were five players who scored five TDs in one game before Taylor in the past 30 years. The last one was Alvin Kamara who had six for the New Orleans Saint against the Minnesota Vikings last season. Taylor has surpassed Derrick Henry to lead the league in rushing yards (1,122) after Sunday. Since Henry is unlikely to return this season due to Jones fracture he suffered, Taylor is very hopeful of becoming the rushing yard leader this season, and even breaking the NFL record (2,105) for that. "You get a sense of his confidence," Colts quarterback (QB) Carson Wentz said. "But you never know if you walk right by him in the locker room, in the grocery store or whatever. He's a low-key guy. He knows what he can do. He's confident. ... The game he had [Sunday], honestly, doesn't surprise me anymore because every single week he shows up and shows out." Wentz completed 11 passes out of 20 attempts for 106 yards and one TD, giving most of the stage to Taylor. Compared with him, Josh Allen ran most of the Bills' offense as he passed for 209 yards and two TDs at 21-35. But he also allowed two interceptions, both by Stefon Diggs. Chargers hold Steelers' crazy rally in last quarter The Los Angeles Chargers edged over the Pittsburgh Steelers 41-37 at SoFi Stadium on Sunday, claiming their sixth win of the season. Facing an incomplete squad of the Steelers that lacked outside linebacker T.J. Watt, cornerback Joe Haden and free safety Minkah Fitzpatrick, the Chargers were leading most of the time at home. QB Justin Herbert completed 30 of 41 passes for 382 yards and three TDs, two of them connecting with Austin Ekeler. Ekeler also rushed for two TDs as well as 50 yards. However, the Steelers persisted on under the driving of veteran Ben Roethlisberger who threw at 28-44 for 273 yards and three TDs. He connected with Eric Ebron and Pat Freiermuth in the last quarter while Najee Harris contributed a rushing TD. After Chris Boswell scored a 45-yard field goal, the Steelers rose to the lead 37-34. Chargers' wide receiver Mike Williams saved the day in the end by receiving a 53-yard pass from Herbert for the last TD. His teammates of the defensive group sacked Roethlisberger twice later, making sure that their team stand up to the Steelers' 27-point counterattack in Q4. This was also the fifth time for the Chargers to come back to win in the last quarter this season. "We had our best stuff at the end," the team's head coach Brandon Staley said. "I feel like we've shown real stuff through 10 games. I'm really proud of this group. This game was one of my favorites, for sure." Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): New Orleans Saints 29-40 Philadelphia Eagles Miami Dolphins 24-17 New York Jets Washington Football Team 27-21 Carolina Panthers Detroit Lions 10-13 Cleveland Browns San Francisco 49ers 30-10 Jacksonville Jaguars Houston Texans 22-13 Tennessee Titans Green Bay Packers 31-34 Minnesota Vikings Baltimore Ravens 16-13 Chicago Bears Cincinnati Bengals 32-13 Las Vegas Raiders Arizona Cardinals 23-13 Seattle Seahawks Dallas Cowboys 9-19 Kansas City Chiefs