The Washington Wizards beat the Orlando Magic 104-92 at Amway Center on Saturday, claiming their fourth straight win and leading the Eastern Conference. Though the team's franchise guard Bradley Beal sat on this road game, the Wizards had Kyle Kuzma and Montrezl Harrell to go to for victory. Harrell dropped 20 points, six rebounds, seven assists and went 6-7 in the paint. Kuzma had a double-double of 17 points and 10 rebounds. He scored 11 points in a row in the third quarter, driving back the rally of the Magic. The incredible performance of the above two plus the playmaking by Spencer Dinwiddie, who got 23 points, 11 rebounds and six assists, gave the Wizards the runway win. "His energy is just phenomenal because it's a different pace and a different aggression level," Wizards head coach Wes Unseld Jr. said of Dinwiddie. "It's second possessions, it's rim runs, blocking shots and being first to the floor. His activity is amazing, and it's every day." As a team that had to go through the play-in tournament to reach the playoffs last season, the Wizards should send a fruit basket to the Los Angeles Lakers for their current 9-3 record. The three players the capital team acquired from the Russell Westbrook trade, namely Kuzma, Harrell and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, have all been performing well this season and playing integral roles for the Wizards. Heat beat Jazz to end losing-streak The Miami Heat defeated the Utah Jazz 111-105 at Vivint Arena on Saturday, sweeping the opponents for the season and putting an end to their three-losing streak. Jimmy Butler continued to rest on this contest, but Kyle Lowry stood out to play the lead role, putting down 21 points, four assists and two steals, helping the Heat establish a 26-point after the first three quarters.Duncan Robinson, who has been very inconsistent offensively this season, was boiling from downtown and drained six triples to get 22 points. P.J. Tucker shared his touch to go 3-3 in triples to get 13 points plus 11 rebounds, five of which were on the offensive glass. Unlike them, Tyler Herro was struggling with his jumpers and missed 11 of them. However, he was remarkably productive in the paint, where he was 5-7 to score court high 27 points. "We were physically and mentally ready to go into this game," Lowry said after the game. "We lost three games on this road trip – two of them we had an opportunity to really win. We just got to continue to build and today was a good building block for us." The Jazz again played like totally different teams in different time periods of the game, just like their 3-point shooting. They were basically neck-to-neck with the Heat in Q1 when five of their shots behind the arc fell into the net. But then that ceased happen in the following two quarters, the Jazz seemed to forget how to defend, trailing 68-45 in the two quarters. When the team, or, specifically Bojan Bogdanovic, went 5-9 from downtown in Q4, the Jazz grew sharp again, launching a 18-0 run once and almost reversed the situation. "I wouldn't say we're out here panicking, but I think it's upsetting," said Donovan Mitchell. "I think that'll be the word I use. It's upsetting because we know each other, we know what we're doing. And it's just time for us to go out there and do it." The Jazz fell to No. 6 in the Western Conference after the loss. Same Timberwolves, same arena, different result On Saturday, the Los Angeles Clippers walked over the Minnesota Timberwolves 129-102 at Staples Center, beating the same opponents for the third time this season. Less than 24 hours ago, the Timberwolves walked over the other LA team, the Lakers, at the same arena, with the same playstyle. Nonetheless, the old trick failed to work in front of the Clippers. If one word must be picked to describe today's Timberwolves, nothing beats "reckless." The arrival of Patrick Beverley made them a very aggressive defensive team that had the fourth-best steal numbers (9.5 per game). Beverley, Josh Okogie, Jarred Vanderbilt and Jaden McDaniels all have athletic bodies with tough bones. But recklessness can also backfire like it did on Saturday night. Although the Clippers might not have a first-class orchestrator, their ball movement is excellent. And fairly speaking, it usually took fewer than three passes to create an open shot facing the defense of the Timberwolves, either outside the 3-point line or under the rim. The terrible defensive reading of Karl-Anthony Towns only made it worse for the Timberwolves, which allowed 66 points in the paint. Paul George, Reggie Jackson, Ivica Zubac and Terance Mann each contributed 10 to that number. Though there's no clear schedule for Kawhi Leonard's return, the Clippers already moved to No. 5 in the West with seven consecutive wins. Other games on Saturday (away teams come first): Philadelphia 76ers 113-118 Indiana Pacers Memphis Grizzlies 101-112 New Orleans Pelicans Detroit Pistons 127-121 Toronto Raptors