The Green Bay Packers beat the Los Angeles Rams 36-28 at Lambeau Field on Sunday, avoiding straight losses. By contrast, the Rams suffered their third loss in a row. They last won on October 31 against the Houston Texans. Aaron Rodgers, who carried a toe injury to play at home on Sunday, passed at 28-45 for 307 yards and two touchdowns (TDs). He also rushed to score one by himself. "When I step on the field, I expect greatness," Rodgers said. "Anyone who's a great competitor feels the same way. I don't lean on excuses: not practicing, a little toe injury." The Packers defensive group allowed the Rams nothing in the first and third quarter. Rasul Douglas intercepted a pass by Matthew Stafford and returned it for a TD in Q3. That pass was aimed for the current receiving yards leader Cooper Kupp but Douglas turned into the first TD of his career. "Cooper Kupp, don't he got like 10,000 yards receiving already in like eight weeks?" Douglas said. "We know that's his guy. We know a lot of balls get thrown to him and he makes a lot of plays." The Packers already enjoyed a 36-17 lead before the last quarter. Though they were outscored by the Rams in Q4, the lead was safe enough for them to secure the victory at home. Stafford's stats were good as he completed 21 of 38 passing attempts for 302 yards and three TDs, but they were not good enough to improve his awkward record of 7-13 against the Packers. He was 3-7 at Lambeau Field, where Stafford described as "one of my favorite places to play" in the NFL. "Just can't have em. Can't come into Lambeau Field and have three turnovers and have three turnovers in minus territory and expect to play the game you want to play," Stafford said. His team allowed 16 points by the Packers via turnovers. Odell Beckham Jr., who was expected to make key enhancement to the Rams' offense, did better in his second game for the team with five catches for 81 yards and one TD. "We're going to continue to learn from these things, that's the only thing that you can do," Rams head coach Sean McVay said. "But we've got to stop with some of these self-inflicted wounds." Ravens edge Browns in an ugly game The Baltimore Ravens defeated the Cleveland Browns 16-10 at M&T Bank Stadium on Sunday. It's the third consecutive game in which the Ravens failed to score more than 16 and they won two of them. Lamar Jackson threw at 20-32 for 165 yards and one TD while allowing four interceptions. 16 of his rushing attempts led to 68 yards but no run was scored. "Our defense just played lights out today," Jackson said. "I'm ticked off, but I told all those guys: 'Way to have our back, way to have my back." Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield was not much better as 19 of his 37 passes failed to reach the targets. He didn't suffer any interception but had only one TD as well. Justin Tucker made key contributions for the Ravens by making three field goals to score nine points. The longest one was made at 52 yards. The Browns had the chance to win in the last 70 seconds when they were trailing 16-10. Nonetheless, Mayfield failed to get first down in four attempts. "Defense, I thought, played great," Mayfield said. "We need to play better, make more plays, complementary football." Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Tampa Bay Buccaneers 38-31 Indianapolis Colts New York Jets 21-14 Houston Texans Philadelphia Eagles 7-13 New York Giants Carolina Panthers 10-33 Miami Dolphins Tennessee Titans 13-36 New England Patriots Pittsburgh Steelers 10-41 Cincinnati Bengals Atlanta Falcons 21-14 Jacksonville Jaguars Los Angeles Chargers 13-28 Denver Broncos Minnesota Vikings 26-34 San Francisco 49ers