Officials from China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) government on Saturday called on registered voters to cast their votes for the seventh-term Legislative Council (LegCo) election scheduled for Sunday.Underscoring the significance of the election, they noted that it is the first LegCo election after the improvement of the electoral system in the HKSAR under the principle of "patriots administering Hong Kong." John Lee, chief secretary for administration, said in a blog that the principle must be well implemented in order to promote prosperity in Hong Kong. Efforts must be made to ensure that the LegCo is constructive and can solve problems in a pragmatic way. Erick Tsang, secretary for constitutional and mainland affairs, visited different polling stations in various districts to inspect preparations for the election. Tsang thanked all electoral staff for their efforts in carrying out the preparatory work and called on them to ensure a smooth process of ballot paper issuing and polling. Commissioner of Police of the Hong Kong Police Force Raymond Siu said the police are committed to ensuring the safety and smoothness of the election and will not tolerate any illegal behavior to sabotage the election.Secretary for the Civil Service Patrick Nip visited the polling station and the counting station at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center to give his support to civil servants who are busy preparing for the election. Nip appealed to all voters to cast their votes on Sunday. After the improvement of the electoral system, three important elections were scheduled in Hong Kong within a year: the Election Committee's subsector ordinary elections in September, the upcoming LegCo election, and the election for the chief executive slated for March 2022.Nearly 4.5 million registered electors can cast their ballots between 8:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. local time on Sunday. A total of 90 LegCo members, including 20 from geographical constituencies, 30 from functional constituencies and 40 from the Election Committee constituency, will be returned.