China will eliminate the share ratio restrictions of foreign investment in passenger vehicle manufacturing starting January 1, 2022. The restrictions that a foreign company can establish a maximum of two joint ventures producing similar vehicles in the country will also be removed, according to a negative list released on Monday, signaling the sector will be complete open to foreign capital. The list, referring to the Special Administrative Measures on Access to Foreign Investment (2021 edition), also known as 2021 National Negative List, was jointly issued by China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the Ministry of Commerce, along with the Free Trade Zone Special Administrative Measures on Access to Foreign Investment (2021 edition), known as 2021 FTZ Negative List. The two negative lists itemize the sectors that foreign investment will either be prohibited or restricted, both of which will take effect on January 1 next year. Compared to the 2020 negative lists, the new 2021 National Negative List has cut down two restrictive measures from 33 to 31, and the 2021 FTZ Negative List has cut the measures from 30 to 27. The NDRC said the revision aims at further relaxing market access for foreign investment and has made the manufacturing item down to zero in FTZ Negative List. Limited effect on Chinese car market The opening car manufacturing sector "will not bring significant effect" to China's auto market, said Cui Dongshu, the secretary-general of the China Passenger Car Association, "since it is under expectations." China had a limited number of foreign carmakers to own no more than 50 percent share of any local venture from 1994 to 2018. In 2018, the world's biggest car market scrapped the foreign ownership caps for utility and new energy vehicles and vowed to remove all restrictions for investment in the sector by 2022. U.S. electric automaker Tesla was the first wholly foreign-owned automaker in China with its first oversea factory built in Shanghai. Read more: CGTN Explains: How did Shanghai become home to global carmakers? "It is impossible for companies to obtain huge development" through this scheduled abolition, Cui told CGTN, noting it is also due to the Chinese market of conventional gas-powered vehicle is stable. However, Cui said the relaxation of restrictions sent positive signals to both domestic and foreign carmakers as it brought them to "compete in the same stage." "The sector [in China] will be more competitive," said Cui, adding all traditional automobile manufacturers will face "huge impacts" from new energy vehicles. Read more: Under China's carbon peak and neutrality goals, will hydrogen energy control its car future? Inspections on foreign IPOs According to the note section of the 2021 National Negative List, domestic firms in industries prohibited from foreign investment will need to seek permission before listing outside the Chinese mainland. "Foreign investors are not allowed to be involved in the operation and management" of those enterprises, and their share ratio shall be in accordance with the relevant regulations, read the List. This came days after China's securities regulator revealed draft rules requiring companies with variable interest entity (VIE) structures to register before they can list offshore. The VIE structures have been used by Chinese companies seeking overseas capital to comply with rules that restrict foreign investment. The draft revised a 1994 regulation over Chinese companies seeking overseas listings. The new regulation aims to plug regulatory loopholes and support compliant companies to raise capital from overseas markets, China's Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) said on Friday. The CSRC statement clarified the market concerns that China would ban its companies from using VIE structures to seek IPOs offshore. Read more: Regulator: China demands its companies to delist from U.S.? Misinterpreted!