Quarterback (QB) Tom Brady of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers has been named for the 2022 Pro Bowl of the NFL, and it's his 15th selection. The 44-year-old matched the NFL record held by tight end Tony Gonzalez, QB Peyton Manning, offensive lineman Bruce Matthews and defensive tackle Merlin Olsen. Brady currently leads the league in both passing yards (4,134) and touchdown passes (36). The Buccaneers lead the National Football Conference (NFC) South with a 10-4 record. They have five players named for the event. The other four are offensive linebacker Shaq Barrett, center Ryan Jensen, offensive guard Ali Marpet and offensive tackle Tristan Wirfs. The Buccaneers are not the leader of the Pro Bowl selections number this season. That honor goes to the Indianapolis Colts, which have seven players named for the event. Their running back Jonathan Taylor, defensive lineman DeForest Buckner, center Ryan Kelly, linebacker Darius Leonard, cornerback Kenny Moore II, guard Quenton Nelson and long snapper Luke Rhodes have all been selected. The Pro Bowl will take place at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas on February 6, 2022. Taylor, defensive end Nick Bosa and fullback Kyle Juszczyk of the San Francisco 49ers, tight end Travis Kelce of the Kansas City Chiefs and cornerback Trevon Diggs of the Dallas Cowboys had the most votes this season. Another five of the Chiefs, QB Patrick Mahomes, offensive tackle Orlando Brown, wide receiver Tyreek Hill, defensive lineman Chris Jones and safety Tyrann Mathieu will join Kelce in the Pro Bowl, giving their team six Pro Bowlers, the same as the Los Angeles Chargers and the second-best of the league. The Buccaneers, 49ers, Cowboys, Baltimore Ravens and Cleveland Browns all saw five of their players named for the Pro Bowl. Three teams, the Miami Dolphin, Tennessee Titans and Carolina Panthers, have the fewest (one) Pro Bowl selections. But, at least, they had players named for it, unlike the New York Jets, New York Giants, Houston Texans, Denver Broncos, Jacksonville Jaguars and Detroit Lions. The American Football Conference starting lineup for Pro Bowl comes as the following: Offense QB Justin Herbert (Los Angeles Chargers) Running back Jonathan Taylor (Indianapolis Colts) Wide Receiver Tyreek Hill﻿(Kansas City Chiefs), Ja'Marr Chase﻿(Cincinnati Bengals) Tight end Mark Andrews (Baltimore Ravens) Offensive tackle Rashawn Slater﻿(Los Angeles Chargers), Orlando Brown (Kansas City Chiefs) Offensive guard Quenton Nelson (Indianapolis Colts), Joel Bitonio﻿(Cleveland Browns) Center Corey Linsley﻿(Los Angeles Chargers) Full back Patrick Ricard (Baltimore Ravens) Defense Defensive end Myles Garrett (Cleveland Browns), Maxx Crosby﻿(Las Vegas Raiders) Interior lineman DeForest Buckner﻿(Indianapolis Colts), Chris Jones (Kansas City Chiefs) Outside linebacker T.J. Watt (Pittsburgh Steelers), Joey Bosa﻿(Los Angeles Chargers) Inside/Middle linebacker Darius Leonard (Indianapolis Colts) Cornerback J.C. Jackson (New England Patriots), Xavien Howard﻿(Miami Dolphins) Free safety Kevin Byard (Tennessee Titans) Strong safety Derwin James (Los Angeles Chargers) Special teams Long snapper Luke Rhodes (Indianapolis Colts) Punter A.J. Cole (Las Vegas Raiders) Placekicker Justin Tucker (Baltimore Ravens) Return specialist Devin Duvernay﻿﻿(Baltimore Ravens) Special Teamer Matthew Slater (New England Patriots) The National Football Conference starting lineup for Pro Bowl comes as the following: Offense QB Aaron Rodgers (Green Bay Packers) Running back Dalvin Cook (Minnesota Vikings) Wide Receiver Cooper Kupp (Los Angeles Rams), Davante Adams﻿(Green Bay Packers) Tight end George Kittle﻿(San Francisco 49ers) Offensive tackle Trent Williams (San Francisco 49ers), Tristan Wirfs﻿(Tampa Bay Buccaneers) Offensive guard Zack Martin (Dallas Cowboys), Brandon Scherff﻿(Washington Football Team) Center Jason Kelce﻿(Philadelphia Eagles) Fullback Kyle Juszczyk (San Francisco 49ers) Defense Defensive end Nick Bosa (San Francisco 49ers), Brian Burns﻿(Carolina Panthers) Interior lineman Aaron Donald﻿(Los Angeles Rams), Jonathan Allen (Washington Football Team) Outside linebacker Chandler Jones﻿(Arizona Cardinals), Robert Quinn (Chicago Bears) Inside/Middle linebacker Micah Parsons (Dallas Cowboys) Cornerback Trevon Diggs (Dallas Cowboys) Jalen Ramsey﻿(Los Angeles Rams) Free safety Quandre Diggs (Seattle Seahawks) Strong safety Budda Baker﻿(Arizona Cardinals) Special teams Long snapper Josh Harris (Atlanta Falcons) Punter Bryan Anger﻿(Dallas Cowboys) Placekicker Matt Gay (Los Angeles Rams) Return specialist Jakeem Grant﻿(Chicago Bears) Special Teamer J.T. Gray (New Orleans Saints)