China Media Group, the country's state broadcaster, on Friday revealed its list of the top 10 domestic business stories of 2021. 1. China realizes the first centenary goal, achieves a 'Xiaokang' society, unveils 14th Five-Year Plan China has realized the first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects in this year, as the Communist Party of China (CPC) celebrated its 100th anniversary of founding. The country is striding toward the second centenary goal of building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects. A moderately prosperous society in all respects is also known as "Xiaokang society" in Chinese. Also, China has unveiled its national development blueprint for the next five years as the country's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025). 2. Record high grain output China's grain output grew by 2 percent to a record high of 682.85 million tonnes this year, exceeding 650 million tonnes for seven consecutive years, data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows. 3. Over 2.7 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines administered in China More than 2.7 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered across China as of December 21, according to the National Health Commission. 4. China's foreign trade maintains high-speed growth China's foreign trade continued its high-speed growth this year. Latest customs data for November shows that imports significantly beat market expectations with a year-on-year jump of 31.7 percent in dollar terms and exports rose by 22 percent. The country's import and export growth for the first 11 months were all above 15 percent year on year, according to China's General Administration of Customs. 5. Zhejiang to be a demonstration zone for common prosperity China in June announced a plan to build its eastern Zhejiang Province as a demonstration zone for common prosperity. According to a guideline released by the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council, Zhejiang should see its per capita gross domestic product reach the level of moderately developed economies by 2025. 6. Carbon peak, neutrality In October, China released a guideline to implement the carbon peak and neutrality under the new development philosophy. The guideline, jointly issued by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council, introduced the roadmap for achieving peak carbon by 2030 and neutrality by 2060 – goals China first announced in September last year. 7. Pricing for electricity generated from coal liberalized China fully liberalized pricing for electricity generated from coal in mid-October in an effort to ensure sufficient power supplies amid large-scale power shortages. Read more: What's behind China's regional power cuts? 8. China's space station welcomes taikonauts; Tianwen-1 lands on Mars China's unfinished space station welcomed two batches of taikonauts for a months-long stay. The Shenzhou-12 crew, including three taikonauts, entered the space station's core module Tianhe in mid-June and lived there for three months till mid-September. The Shenzhou-13 crew, including a female taikonaut and her two male colleagues, arrived at Tianhe in mid-October and will stay there for six months. Also, the rover of China's first Mars probe Tianwen-1 touched down on the red planet on May 15. It landed at a pre-selected landing zone in the southern part of an icy area of the planet known as Utopia Planitia. Read more: Here's a visual journey of China's first Mars mission. 9. Beijing Stock Exchange launched The Beijing Stock Exchange was launched on November 15 and witnessed a turnover of 9.57 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) on the first trading day. The new bourse is in addition to the two main boards in Shanghai and Shenzhen, and aims to be a major base for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. 10. Anti-monopoly campaign China inaugurated its new National Anti-monopoly Bureau in November in the same building as the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) in Beijing. In 2018, anti-monopoly supervision was integrated into the country's top market watchdog SAMR, which has imposed administrative penalties on many companies, including internet giants Alibaba, Tencent and Meituan for violating anti-monopoly laws.