Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday said that China is ready to work with African countries to push for more tangible outcomes and inject stronger impetus into the mutually beneficial cooperation between China and Africa. Wang made the remarks during separate meetings with his counterparts from Gabon, Tanzania, Cote d'Ivoire, Central African Republic (CAR) and Guinea on the sidelines of the 8th Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Dakar, Senegal. Unity against COVID-19 pandemic Noting that Guinea was the first country in Sub-Saharan Africa to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, Wang said the two countries have supported each other in safeguarding independence and promoting national development, and given each other a helping hand in tackling major challenges such as Ebola and COVID-19. In the meeting with Foreign Minister of CAR Sylvie Baipo-Temon, he said that China has provided vaccines, test kits and other prevention and control materials to the CAR, and is ready to continue vaccine cooperation based on its needs. Baipo-Temon said the CAR thanks China for its generous assistance at their most difficult times. Wang also extended his congratulations on Cote d'Ivoire's active fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and its efforts to achieve economic growth at medium-high speed. Moreover, Gabonese Foreign Minister Pacome Moubelet-Boubeya said that China was the first country to provide Gabon with anti-pandemic supplies and vaccines, which played a vital role in its effective COVID-19 response. Cooperation for economic recovery Guinean Foreign Minister Morissanda Kouyate said that the mutually beneficial cooperation with China in fields including infrastructure, resources and telecommunications is full of vitality, and China's success in poverty reduction provides a valuable reference for Africa. Noting that China has become Cote d'Ivoire's largest bilateral financing partner and its third-largest trading partner, Wang said China welcomes Cote d'Ivoire to make use of important platforms, such as China International Import Expo, China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo and China Import and Export Fair, to present cocoa and other specialty products and achieve mutual benefits and win-win results. Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cote d'Ivoire Kandia Camara said that her country looks forward to expanding bilateral economic and trade cooperation and welcomes investment from Chinese enterprises to help improve the country's capacity for raw material processing. Tanzanian Foreign Minister Liberata Mulamula said that her country is ready to further deepen bilateral cooperation on infrastructure, economy and trade, besides exchanging governance experience with China. Gabon looks forward to deepening cooperation in agriculture, forestry and other fields with China to achieve green development and win-win results, said the Gabonese foreign minister.