In recent years, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region has been supporting diversified career development and vocational training programs in rural communities in such areas as food preparation and child care. In a news conference on Xinjiang development on Monday, Alimire Ahmat, a teacher at a vocational school in western Xinjiang's Aksu city, told journalists she chose to go back to Aksu to pass on what she learned in Shanghai and Qingdao as a pastry cook. "This is my sixth year teaching at Aksu Engineer and Technician School. I teach different pastry classes here. During these six years, I have seen my students make achievements in different cities. I am so proud," she said. She added that, on average, her students can earn 5,000 yuan ($785) monthly. "For example, students who know how to make naans can get a monthly pay of 7,000 yuan in China's eastern cities," she said. Guliziba Eskel, a student who studies barbering and beauty at the school, said she can earn 3,200 yuan every month now as a beauty salon intern after receiving state financial aid. She said she had been about to drop out due to the lack of stable support, but after winning several vocational skill competitions and gaining the intern position, she decided to continue pursuing her career goal. Besides pastries, mastering the art of lamb kebabs – another famous Xinjiang food – is a dream for many. Abdurusuli Satar of Kashgar Technician College is a very experienced teacher of Xinjiang cuisine and nutrition science. "I am very strict in class, because I want students to fully focus on the knowledge and really learn it. You know practicing is important. I am their big buddy, teacher, and friend," he said in a video introducing his work. In 2021, Xinjiang received 650 million yuan from central and local governments for vocational school upgrades and the expansion of vocational education. The region has 29 training entities in total, with 14 vocational teaching and training bases to date. The training allows people from rural areas to acquire more vocational skills. As locals say, those skills help them get involved in businesses and that, in turn, brings them more opportunities and better lives.