China Media Group (CMG) has selected 10 top world stories in 2021. Here's a recap of the events that made the year extraordinary. 1. China proposes Global Development Initiative Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed the Global Development Initiative in his speech to the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly via video link in September. The plan charts the course for international development. In 2021, 50 years after the People's Republic of China restored its lawful seat in the UN, the country is committed to promoting multilateralism and building a community with a shared future for mankind, at a time of crisis and great uncertainties. Over the past year, Xi attended a series of international meetings and offered China's solutions to key global issues, including global governance, the fight against the pandemic, economic recovery and climate change. 2. Challenges from C0VID-19 continue As of December 24, there were more than 276 million cases and 5.37 million deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide. The Omicron variant has spread to at least 110 countries and regions. The World Health Organization estimates that 8.6 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines had been administered globally by December 23. However, there has been a severe disparity in vaccine distribution between rich and poor countries. Meanwhile, the hoarding of vaccines and attempts to politicize the virus origins tracing by some developed countries hinder the fight against the pandemic. China has provided more than 2 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccine to over 120 countries and international organizations, making it the top vaccine donor in the world. 3. China and Russia extend cooperation treaty In 2021, China and Russia have continued to deepen their comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for the new era. In May, the two countries launched a joint nuclear energy project. In June, Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin extended the Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation. The two leaders held a virtual meeting in December. This year, China-Russia bilateral trade reached a record high while cooperation in energy and sci-tech innovation advances steadily. 4.  Challenges and opportunities for Afghanistan after U.S. withdrawal In August, the U.S. hastily withdrew its troops from Afghanistan, ending a 20-year-long war. Throughout this war, more than 100,000 Afghan civilians were estimated to have been killed or wounded by foreign forces and tens of millions displaced. But the U.S. has failed to contain terrorism or to implant a western model of government in the country successfully. All this has left Afghanistan with a deteriorating security situation, a collapsing economy, and a growing humanitarian crisis. 5. U.S. and European economies see rising inflation U.S. and European economies have seen record inflation amid the global pandemic and a series of stimulus measures. In November, the U.S.' consumer price index jumped nearly 7 percent year-on-year, a record high in 39 years, according to the U.S. Deprtament of Labor. Meanwhile, China's foreign trade had been increasing for 18 consecutive months as of last month. The country plays a key role in stabilizing the global supply chain and supporting world economic recovery. 6. Russia draws 'red line' with U.S. and NATO Russian President Vladimir Putin warned of a swift and serious response if the West were to cross its "red line" during a state of the nation speech in April. In December, Moscow formally demanded guarantee from the U.S. and NATO that they would not expand military capabilities eastward and threaten its western border. Tensions between Russia and Western countries have increased in 2021, as the U.S. and its NATO allies announced fresh sanctions and extension of old ones against Moscow over so-called human rights issues, Ukraine and the Nord Stream-2 Pipeline project. 7. Riot on U.S. Capitol On January 6, supporters of outgoing president Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol in a bid to stop the transition of power. The riot, which left five people dead and hundreds of others injured, was the most serious violent attack on the federal institution since 1814. A major crisis for American democracy, the riot has led to social media banning politicians, including Trump. It also raised questions about double standards from the country's law enforcement, which were thought to have come down harder on Black Lives Matter protesters previously. 8. Nuclear threats from AUKUS pact, Fukushima wastewater In September, the U.S., Britain and Australia announced a military partnership called "AUKUS." Under the new pact, Australia is to acquire nuclear-powered submarines, after it reneged on a previous contract with France. This has triggered widespread international opposition and concerns about the breaching of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. Separately, Japan announced that it will release the nuclear wastewater accumulated at the crippled Fukushima nuclear power plant following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Although Japan has insisted the wastewater has been treated and safe, the move has drawn overwhelming opposition from the international community. 9. COP15 and COP26 highlight biodiversity, climate change In October, the first phase of the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP15) to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity was inaugurated in China's Kumming City, where countries adopted the "Kunming Declaration" calling for action to slow biodiversity loss. In November, the UN Climate Change Summit (COP26) was convened in Glasgow, Britain. The climate conference finalized detailed implementation plans of the Paris Agreement. China and the U.S. signed a joint declaration to combat climate change. 10. Olympic motto becomes 'Faster, Higher, Stronger – Together' At the Tokyo Summer Olympics, held in July after a one-year delay due to the COVID-19, a new motto for the games debuted which reads "Faster, Higher, Stronger – Together." The International Olympic Committee (IOC) unanimously approved adding "together" after the original three-word motto to highlight the importance of unity. In December, the 76 Session of the UN General Assembly adopted an Olympic Truce resolution co-sponsored by 173 Member States ahead of the 2022 Beijing Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games in February and March 2022. On December 11, the 10th Olympic Summit stressed the importance of political neutrality of the games and denounced attempts to politicize sporting events.