China has gained a new friend in Latin America and the Caribbean and a good partner in advancing the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and building a community with a shared future for mankind, said Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday. He made the remarks during an online meeting with a government delegation of the Republic of Nicaragua. The two countries resumed diplomatic relations on Friday, a day after the latter severed its "diplomatic relations" with the Taiwan region. The resumption of diplomatic ties between China and Nicaragua fully conforms to the fundamental and long-term interests of both sides and will be welcomed and supported by the two peoples, he said. The two countries should cement the political foundation of the one-China principle, jointly draw up the blueprint for the development of bilateral relations, advance exchanges and cooperation in an orderly manner and deliver benefits to the two countries and their peoples, he added. Highlighting that Taiwan has been an inherent part of China's territory since ancient times, he stressed that China must and will be reunited. Laureano Ortega Murillo, advisor to Nicaraguan president, said that Nicaragua is full of sincerity towards the resumption of diplomatic ties between the two countries and will fully honor its commitment and firmly abide by the one-China principle. Nicaragua is ready to join the BRI to strengthen cooperation in various fields with China, he said. Wang also met with Nicaragua's Foreign Minister Denis Moncada via video link on Friday. It is only a matter of time and the trend of the times for countries that still maintain diplomatic ties with the Taiwan region to establish or restore normal diplomatic relations with China, Wang said after the meeting. Nicaragua thus became the 181st country to establish normal diplomatic relations with China, he said. "The United States itself established diplomatic relations with China over 40 years ago. What right do they have to prevent other countries from making their own choices?" he added. Wang's proposal on advancing bilateral ties During his meeting with Moncada, Wang outlined a four-point proposal on developing China-Nicaragua relations, including adhering to the one-China principle, making cooperation plans, cementing public support for bilateral ties, and firmly supporting each other in international affairs. Adherence to the one-China principle is the political prerequisite for the restoration of China-Nicaragua diplomatic relations and the political foundation for the smooth development of bilateral ties, Wang stressed. He called on the two sides to conduct exchanges in various fields, promote win-win cooperation, enhance traditional friendship between the peoples, and jointly safeguard the common interests of developing countries and international fairness and justice. Moncada said he fully agrees with Wang's proposal on developing bilateral ties. Nicaragua will speed up cooperation with China in areas such as economy and trade, science and technology, culture and media, Moncada said, adding that Nicaragua stands ready to start talks with China on signing cooperation agreements under the BRI.