Chinese Ambassador to the U.S. Qin Gang said on Thursday that China is working to make it more convenient for U.S. business executives to come to China. Speaking at a dinner hosted by the U.S.-China Business Council, Qin said Beijing has already formulated a specific work plan and will share it with the council. "With the upgraded arrangement, the time needed for travel approval will be shorter, no more than 10 working days. Testing and quarantine will be more convenient. You can work during quarantine if conditions for a quarantine bubble are eligible," Qin said. Qin told U.S. businesses to keep their confidence in China's high-quality development. He highlighted China's vibrant economy, saying that it has made important contributions to the recovery of the global economy and global trade from COVID-19, and will make further progress in quality and efficiency. He also welcomed American companies to come onboard to share the dividends of China's high-quality development. Qin reassured that China will continue to comprehensively deepen reform and opening-up. "We will further shorten the negative lists on foreign investment access, enable all-round opening-up of agriculture and manufacturing, open the telecommunications, healthcare and other service sectors wider, and implement a negative list for cross-border service trade nationwide," he said. The ambassador also vowed to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and build "a market-oriented, law-based and world-class business environment." Speaking of China-U.S. relations, Qin highlighted the role of economic and trade cooperation as the anchor and propeller of bilateral ties. "China is ready to enhance such cooperation with the U.S. to expand our shared interests. We need to strengthen existing cooperation in agriculture, manufacturing and financial services, and I believe our cooperation in energy and climate change means new opportunities to companies of both countries," Qin said. Decoupling and building walls would only undermine the global industrial chain and supply chain, he continued, urging the U.S. to abolish the cold war mentality.