China is willing to talk with the United States, but their dialogue should be equal, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday at a symposium on the international situation and China's diplomacy in 2021. China welcomes cooperation with the U.S., but it should benefit both sides; China is also open to competition, but it should be healthy, Wang said, stressing that China is not afraid of conflict. Besides China-U.S. relations, he also commented on a range of topics, such as the Taiwan question, China's efforts in defending international fairness and justice, the global fight against COVID-19 and China-Russia ties. Taiwan is not a pawn to be used Taiwan will ultimately reunite with the Chinese mainland and should not be used as a pawn by others, Wang said in his speech. The crux of the latest round of tensions across the Taiwan Straits is the attempt by Taiwan authorities to seek independence with U.S. support, and attempts by the U.S. and other countries to contain China by way of the Taiwan question, he told the symposium. "The meaning of the one-China principle faced the danger of being hollowed out," Wang said. China has sent stern warnings and carried out strong countermeasures to these moves, he added. Wang noted the recent resumption of diplomatic relations between China and Nicaragua, saying that the one-China consensus has been further consolidated in the international community. China stands on the right side of history Reviewing the global situation this year, Wang said the world is standing at a crossroads, noting that there are two different orientations. One is returning to the Cold-War mentality and stirring up division and group confrontation; the other features a commitment to solidarity and cooperation, openness and win-win results as well as equality and respect, he said. China always stands on the right side of history and on the side of international fairness and justice, he stressed. The country upholds cooperation, openness, mutual benefit and equal treatment, while opposing confrontation, closeness, zero-sum games and hegemonism and bullying, he said. China will adhere to the theme of fighting the global pandemic with solidarity in the post-pandemic era, and engage in cooperation on medicine research and development, he said.The rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is unstoppable, he said, adding that China will continue to strive for the goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind and make greater contributions for the world. Wang also noted that this year marks the 20th anniversary of signing of the China-Russia Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation, underscoring the two countries' decision to extend the pact. Strategic coordination between China and Russia has injected stability to a world filled with uncertainties, he said.