China always advocates democracy in international relations and believes that all countries – big or small, rich or poor – are equal members of the global community, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Tuesday. He made the remarks during a meeting with Edite Ten Jua, foreign minister of Sao Tome and Principe, on the sidelines of the Eighth Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Senegal's capital Dakar. Wang told his counterpart that China is firmly opposed to hegemonism and power politics and to big players forcing themselves on smaller ones in state-to-state relations. China will continue to cooperate with other developing countries under the principle of mutual respect and jointly build a community with a shared future for mankind, he said. China appreciates Sao Tome and Principe's firm adherence to the one-China policy, he said, noting that pragmatic cooperation has continued to advance since the resumption of diplomatic relations between the two countries in December 2016. Ten Jua said Sao Tome and Principe will continue to firmly adhere to the one-China policy. China treats small countries as equals and wins respect from the international community, she said. Wang slams U.S. hypocrisy on democracy Wang also held bilateral meetings with Beninese Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation Aurelien Agbenonci, Zambian Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Stanley Kakubo, Malian Foreign Minister Abdoulaye Diop, Eritrean Foreign Minister Osman Saleh, Burundian Foreign Minister Albert Shingiro, Equatorial Guinean Foreign Minister Simeon Oyono Esono Angue, Cameroonian Foreign Minister Lejeune Mbella Mbella and Guinea-Bissau's Minister of Foreign Affairs Suzi Carla Barbosa on the sidelines of the FOCAC conference on Tuesday. During his meeting with Agbenonci, Wang said China appreciates Benin's support for China on issues concerning its core interests and major concerns and will continue to resolutely support Benin in opposing outside interference and choosing its own development path. Agbenonci said Benin upholds the one-China principle and will continue to firmly support China's just stance. Wang commented on the upcoming "Summit for Democracy" proposed by the United States, during his meeting with the Eritrean foreign minister. The standard of democracy must be defined in a democratic way, he stressed. He criticized the U.S. for its hypocrisy over the so-called summit, noting that it is undemocratic for the U.S. to judge other countries. Acts of unilateralism and arbitrariness are on the opposite side of democracy, he said. Wang also exchanged views with the African ministers on the fight against COVID-19 and cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative and in addressing climate change. (With input from Xinhua)