Bayern Munich extended their lead at the top of the Bundesliga to six points on Saturday as teenager Jamal Musiala grabbed a late winner to seal a 2-1 comeback victory at home to Mainz. Second-half goals by Kingsley Coman and 18-year-old Musiala sealed the victory behind closed doors at Munich's Allianz Arena after Mainz's shock early lead. Bayern are on target to win the German league for a tenth straight season as second-placed Dortmund drew 1-1 at Bochum. Bayern boss Julian Nagelsmann chalked up his 100th Bundesliga win as a coach and confirmed match-winner Musiala, who had previously opted not to be vaccinated against COVID-19, has now received a vaccine. "I am pleased that he is vaccinated and hopefully we won't have any more problems in the second half of the season," Nagelsmann said after Musiala had been one of five players quarantined last month as contact cases. In Italy, Juventus drew 1-1 at Venezia to slip up in the Champions League race. Mattia Aramu earned promoted Venezia an excellent point against Juve with a curling low drive nine minutes after half-time. The 26-year-old's fifth goal of the season, which equalized Alvaro Morata's 32nd-minute opener, moved Venezia six points away from the relegation zone. Juve, meanwhile, are sixth after being leapfrogged by Fiorentina and are six points behind Atalanta, who sit in the final Champions League spot. Matters were made worse for Juve by the early loss of Paulo Dybala to injury, the latest of a series of niggling problems for the Argentine. The 28-year-old, who was substituted at half-time of Juve's 1-0 win over Malmo on Wednesday, limped off the field in the 12th minute and after being replaced by Kaio Jorge was seen with a bandage around his right knee. Elsewhere, Zlatan Ibrahimovic snatched a late point for AC Milan in Saturday's 1-1 draw at Udinese, which gives the Serie A leaders' title rivals a chance to steal top spot. Ibrahimovic struck with an acrobatic effort in the 92nd minute to claim a point for the Rossoneri but Inter Milan, who are two points behind their local rivals in second, will end the weekend in first place if they beat struggling Cagliari at the San Siro on Sunday. Napoli are a further point back and can move level on 39 with Milan before Inter kick off with a win over Empoli in Naples, with some of their key players, including Andre-Frank Zambo Anguissa and Lorenzo Insigne backm in the squad. Also waiting in the wings are Atalanta, who sit fourth but are only five points behind Milan ahead of their trip to Verona on Sunday afternoon.