Editor's note: Fikrejesus Amahazion is an educator and research analyst based at the Eritrean Center for Strategic Studies in the capital of Eritrea, Asmara. His areas of interest include human rights, political economy, and international development, with a particular focus on Africa. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The United Nations, a truly universal global organization, designates days and weeks on the international calendar of each year as special occasions to mark and observe particular events or topics. These important periods allow the global community to come together to raise critical awareness about issues of great collective concern, to mobilize political will and resources to address pressing world problems, and to collectively celebrate and reinforce the many achievements of humanity. Today, December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, first proclaimed in 1992, is being celebrated by people and communities across the world, providing an important opportunity to briefly reflect upon some of Africa's key challenges related to disability, as well as to thoughtfully consider possible steps forward. In particular, as general ties between China and Africa continue to steadily expand and seemingly move from strength to strength, most recently reflected through the just-completed Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Dakar, Senegal, the area of disabilities is one that can potentially benefit greatly from further Sino-Africa cooperation. While estimates vary, according to the World Health Organization, over one billion people in the world live with some form of disability, about 80 percent of whom reside in developing countries. An estimated 60-80 million people with disabilities live in Africa. Across the continent, people with disabilities are confronted with an array of challenges and many countries remain unable to offer adequate or appropriate support or care services. In many African countries, persons with disabilities do not receive the health care, supportive or rehabilitation services, or assistive devices (e.g., wheelchairs, crutches, hearing aids, prosthetics, etc.) that they specifically need. Generally, disability health infrastructure and facilities are commonly inadequate and severely underfunded, costs associated with care or service are extremely prohibitive, and service providers frequently lack the necessary knowledge, training, and professional development to accommodate the requirements of the disabled. Furthermore, people with disabilities are disproportionately likely to live in poverty and face considerable barriers to accessing education, employment opportunities, housing, social protection systems and justice and to participation in socio-political life. Unfortunately, prejudice, stigma and discrimination also abound, while the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has amplified the injustices and inequalities faced by those living with disabilities. Increasingly, China and numerous African countries have developed strong ties and established extensive partnerships within many areas. Within the health sector, in particular, China's assistance has grown significantly. Over many years, China has dispatched more than 23,000 medical professionals to the continent, thus directly benefiting millions of people. As well, Chinese assistance to African countries has extended to constructing and renovating health facilities; training, educating, and developing the skills of doctors, nurses, and other health workers; and providing substantial amounts of financial and resource support. With China and African countries continuing to build upon this long-standing history of close cooperation, vividly illustrated in the recent high-profile FOCAC gathering in Dakar, considerable opportunities exist for further partnership and greater solidarity toward addressing the substantial challenges related to disability on the continent. For instance, China has a large population of persons living with disabilities and it has made a wide range of important efforts to confront various problems. It has ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (playing an active role during the negotiation and drafting process), has developed a series of positive legislative and administrative actions to support the disabled, and improved and standardized the social protection system for those with disabilities. Notably, in a relatively short period, China has also been able to significantly increase the number of disabled children being educated, as well as to greatly improve the rate of employment for working-age disabled people in the country. Notwithstanding remaining challenges, China's initiatives and recent improvements can serve to offer useful insights and valuable lessons for African countries as they navigate their own challenges and aim to positively address them. Also potentially significant is the China-Africa Cooperation Vision 2035, jointly prepared by China and African countries and recently announced by President Xi Jinping. Through this Vision, China has committed to undertaking more medical and health projects on the continent, to dispatching even more medical personnel and health experts to support African countries, and to helping increase capacity and local jobs. These large commitments, properly directed and retaining a strong focus on disability, can play a positive role in increasing the quality and accessibility of health care and services for people with disabilities in Africa, as well as promoting their social inclusion and labor participation. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)