Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola, who has one of the most spectacular CVs in world football, is renowned for his commendable understanding of the game and unflappable demeanor. So it is rather unusual for him to publicly raise the possibility of footballers going on strike as the Premier League enters the traditional hectic festive period. "Should the players and the managers be all together and make a strike, or something, because just through words it's not going to be solved?" Guardiola dead-panned at his latest press briefing. The master tactician's concern was wholly justified. With a new highly transmissible Omicron variant of the COVID-19 surging across UK, the English topflight was thrown into a deep crisis.  Six of 10 fixtures last weekend were postponed due to outbreaks at several clubs, three games on Boxing Day have also been called off, and a record high of 90 positive cases among players and staff were reported during the most recent screening. "I am worried from a medical point of view," said Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel earlier this week. "How will it stop if we are in a bus together and in meetings together? We are disappointed, we are a bit angry." Tuchel's anger was echoed by many of his counterparts, who vented their huge frustrations at the Premier League's decision to press ahead with the festive calendar despite the worrying Omicron uptick. Tottenham boss Antonio Conte (who pulled no punches in his criticism of the decision) described a recent zoom call between managers and the Premier League as like talking to "a wall". "If I have to be honest, it was a meeting where we tried to speak and some coaches tried to speak, to ask about solutions but I think everything was decided," fumed the Italian. "It was a wall. For this reason, I prefer not go into the discussion." Pressed on if he felt the meeting was a waste of time, he said, "I think so. Because when you have a wall in front of you, you can ask and speak about what you want, but every decision was taken." "I didn't want to suggest anything myself because I think I would waste time and waste words. I understood that nothing can happen. I prefer to use the time to work and to improve my players," he added. Aston Villa manager Steven Gerrard revealed that the current Omicron crisis has already dealt a psychological blow on players. "We had a situation at the weekend where one of the players was reluctant to get out of his car because he had some symptoms and he's got a young family, and you can totally understand his view in his situation," said the former Liverpool legend.  "This is a guy who's got a young family, it is Christmas time, and that's the situation everyone is in. No one wants to get this virus. Everyone wants to protect their own families." "Thankfully he was tested after and he didn't have a situation, but that player would not have been available for me on the day, and these are the little situations that people don't see. We've got a major responsibility to listen to the players and deal with every situation as it comes your way." Meanwhile, the Premier League has released guidance to explain its protocols for postponing fixtures. Factors include the impact of COVID infections, injuries, illness and isolation on the squad will be considered. Matches will be called off if a club does not have at least 13 outfield players and a goalkeeper available, or there is an unacceptable risk to the health and safety of players and staff by playing the fixture. The postponed Premier League fixtures so far due to COVID-19 Brighton vs. Tottenham December 12 Brentford vs. Man Utd December 14 Burnley vs. Watford December 15 Leicester vs. Tottenham December 16 Man Utd vs. Brighton December 18 Southampton vs. Brentford December 18 Watford vs. Crystal Palace December 18 West Ham vs. Norwich December 18 Aston Villa vs. Burnley December 18 Everton vs. Leicester December 19 Liverpool vs. Leeds December 26 Wolves vs. Watford December 26 Burnley vs. Everton December 26