China and the EU can complement each other to promote connectivity among countries and sustainable global development, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Thursday. Wang made the remarks after the European Commission on Wednesday unveiled Global Gateway – a plan to invest 300 billion euros ($340 billion) globally by 2027 in infrastructure, digital and climate projects. "China welcomes all initiatives that help developing countries improve infrastructure and promote common development. We also believe that different initiatives should not replace or exclude each other. Instead, we advocate inclusiveness, communication and coordination for greater synergy," Wang said. He noted that China and the EU have much in common in the overall direction of connectivity, and there is every reason for the two sides to complement each other. China launched BRI in 2013, aiming to build a trade and infrastructure network to connect Asia with Europe and Africa along the ancient Silk Road trade routes to seek common development and prosperity. "I would like to stress that BRI follows the principle of wide consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, upholds the open, clean and green concept, and is committed to realizing sustainable, livelihood-oriented and high-standard objectives," Wang said. Over the past eight years, the BRI project has grown into the world's largest international cooperation platform. Till the end of January, a total of 171 countries and international organizations had signed 205 cooperation agreements with China on the joint building of the BRI. "BRI cooperation has delivered tangible benefits to the people in participating countries and has been warmly welcomed and highly commended by all sides, especially developing countries," he said. "Going forward, we will continue to strengthen cooperation with all BRI partners and work for steady progress in various sectors guided by the principle of wide consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits so as to help developing countries improve infrastructure and contribute to global development," he added. （With input from Xinhua）