Somalia's allies expressed alarm over the intensifying row between the country's president and prime minister as heavily armed factions patrolled parts of Mogadishu on Tuesday, raising fears that the political crisis could erupt into violence. Soldiers loyal to the prime minister took up positions near the presidential palace, a day after President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed announced the suspension of Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble, who accused him of an "attempted coup." Relations between the president and prime minister have long been frosty, with the latest development raising fresh fears for Somalia's stability as it struggles to hold elections. On Tuesday, pro-Roble troops paraded the streets, fueling fear among Mogadishu residents weary of armed confrontations. "They are not far away from the main security checkpoints of the presidential palace, they are armed with heavy machine guns and RPGs (rocket-propelled grenades)," Saido Mumin, a resident was quoted as saying by AFP. Another local, Abdukadir Ahmed, was quoted as saying that he was "really worried" about the potential for violence. President Mohamed has accused Roble of interfering with a probe into a land-grabbing case and withdrawn his mandate to organise elections. Roble in turn has accused the president of attempting to carry out "a coup against the government, the constitution, and the rules of the country" and sabotage the vote. International alarm International observers and allies, including the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), the United States, the European Union and the United Nations, released a statement late Monday expressing "deep concern" over the crisis and urged both sides to calm. "We call on Somalia's leaders to put the country's interests first, to de-escalate rising political tensions, and to refrain from provocation or use of force that could undermine peace and stability," the statement said. "International partners have repeatedly expressed growing concern over procedural irregularities and delays in the Somali electoral process." Some Somali traditional elders and politicians have also sought to calm the tempers. "Some politicians and elders (have) started going between the two sides to de-escalate the situation, but these efforts are yet to... bring about a formal resolution", a source in the office of the president was quoted as saying by AFP. In April, Mohamed sought to extend his term without holding fresh elections, triggering deadly gun battles in Mogadishu. Roble then brokered a new timetable to a vote, but in the months that followed, the pair's bitter rivalry derailed the polls again. They only agreed to bury the hatchet in October, and issued a unified call for the glacial election process to accelerate. Read more: Somali PM accuses president of 'coup attempt' after power suspension Somali PM appoints new minister for foreign affairs (With input from AFP）