Editor's note: Anthony Moretti is an associate professor at the Department of Communication and Organizational Leadership of Robert Morris University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. Americans reacted – if they paid attention at all – with shock a few days ago to the news that one of China's largest cities had gone into lockdown. All the while, far too many Americans carried on with their Christmas plans, regardless of their vaccination status, and blithely ignored the realities of a pandemic now almost two full years running. They are fully prepared to continue their holiday fun in the coming days leading up to New Year's Eve events. That is the way it is for millions of Americans right now: There is a festivity, gathering or party somewhere, and they are going to take part in it, and whether they or the people around them are vaccinated simply does not matter. Neither does the evidence that COVID-19 cases linked to the omicron variant are skyrocketing across the land. When the news from Xi'an, capital of northwest China's Shaanxi Province, broke that 175 coronavirus cases had been uncovered on December 27, the reaction within China was swift, appropriate and necessary. The city went into lockdown, a process that means people in 283 allocated "closed areas" cannot leave their homes unless they are getting tested for the virus. Workers have also sprayed virus-killing chemicals across the city. When health conditions are deemed safe by the reputable medical authorities, the lockdown will end. Undoubtedly, 175 cases in one city are too many in a country that has adopted zero-COVID-19 policies since the pandemic began roughly 22 months ago. Keep in mind that Xi'an is a city of about 13 million people, slightly more than the number of people who live in New York City and Los Angeles combined. One can imagine the outrage that would emanate from those U.S. cities and throughout the country if any such lockdown was ordered in those locations. Cries would echo from one corner that "my" Christmas and New Year's celebrations were being taken away from "me." From another corner would come screams that "my" rights were being violated. From elsewhere, one would hear claims that "I" will not stand for this abuse of governmental authority especially because "I" pay "my" taxes. I – that is the only person who matters for an overwhelming number of Americans. "I" will do what "I" want and whenever "I" want. There is minimal or zero consideration for the health and safety of others, most especially the doctors and nurses who are overburdened and burned out from caring for the sick. The snide remark is everywhere: "So what? That is what they get paid for." The potential that large holiday gatherings also could serve as incubators for infecting more people? "So what? It is party time." And what about the possibility that kids could be infected, putting their return to school next week in danger? "Coronavirus is just the flu." Call it ignorance or arrogance, but significant parts of America are never going to change their behaviors or get vaccinated. The comparison to Chinese citizens – resolute that the protection of the community and the country comes first – is stunning. Meanwhile, U.S. politicians – from the country's President down to the mayors of the smallest of cities – offer recommendations or suggestions, almost begging Americans to do the right thing and put "we" ahead of "me." The only people willing to listen are those who from the beginning of the pandemic have recognized that their actions could have dangerous implications for their families, friends and co-workers. Acting to protect society over self is one of the only ways the global community will finally and forever get ahead of a virus that is ever-eager to mutate and infect more people. We cannot forget that the non-stop criticism of China throughout governmental circles also helps to explain why Americans refuse to consider China's response to multiple coronavirus cases in any one city. With a cold war mentality launched from Washington and spreading across the country, Americans have reached one conclusion: Anything China does is bad. Again, whether you choose to call it ignorance or arrogance, they have accepted the drumbeat of faulty rhetoric masquerading as news, adopting the belief that China cannot be trusted to be an honest player on the international stage. With that as the mindset, should we be surprised that the concept of a lockdown is anathema in the U.S. if for no other reason than that is what China does? Lockdowns are not fun. They are hard on everyone. But refusing to consider them as viable options in order to curtail the spread of coronavirus simply because "that is the China way" is ridiculous. Put it all together and we can easily understand why more than 817,000 Americans have died from coronavirus over the past 22 months and more than 50 million Americans have contracted it. Both numbers far exceed data from any other country. But, hey, "I" am going to do what "I" want. Go ahead, but please stay far away from my loved ones and me. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)