Editor's note: Liu Chunsheng is an associate professor at the Beijing-based Central University of Finance and Economics. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. At the critical moment when the COVID-19 pandemic is still severely challenging the economic and social governance capabilities of countries around the world, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and leaders of six major global economic institutions will hold the sixth "1+6" Roundtable on Monday to discuss issues such as the world economic situation, global economic governance in the post-pandemic era, and China's deepening of reform and opening-up. This is not only the institutional continuation of the previous five roundtable dialogues, but also an action that China and the economic organizations are taking together when protectionism and unilateralism have seriously interfered with the global trading system and economic recovery. With varied levels of economic recovery in the world, China's economy continued to grow in the first three quarters of this year and reached 9.8 percent with enhanced structural optimization and industrial transformation. The fundamentals of China's long-term economic growth have not changed, and with further reform and opening-up, it will achieve more sustainable and balanced economic development. At the same time, China strives to uphold the concept of a shared community of health for all and fulfill its promise to turn COVID-19 vaccines into a global public good. China has provided more than 180 million doses of vaccines to 53 African countries. On November 29, President Xi Jinping announced at the opening ceremony of the Eighth Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation that the country will provide another 1 billion doses to Africa, of which 600 million doses will be donated and 400 million will be produced in Africa by Chinese and African companies. China is also strengthening its cooperation with developed and developing countries in the operation of multilateral financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, in both of which China's voting share have risen to the third place. Regular dialogues with the heads of the six major international organizations has helped China further understand their policy trends and enhance the country's awareness and collaboration capabilities in participating in international economic governance. It is also very conducive for the economic organizations to strengthen multilateral communication mechanisms on the basis of understanding China's economic policy trends and development strategy. The pandemic will continue testing the resilience of economies of all countries, the stability of global production networks and supply chains in extraordinary times. As the world's second-largest economy, China stabilized its economy in a relatively short period and became the only country in the world's major economies to achieve growth in 2020. In this process, China has showcased its capabilities of comprehensive response to major crises and obviously attracted great attention from the whole world. Subsequently, China will actively provide Chinese solutions for global economic recovery, bridging the domestic and international markets as well as resources in the process of accelerating the construction of the "dual circulation" development pattern, which will boost high-quality economic development with an open mind, courage and a broad market space, based on "carbon peak and neutrality" goals, the upgrading of manufacturing sectors, the improvement of digital technology and its application in the process of industrialization, high-standard opening-up and the Belt and Road construction. There are still many uncertainties in the global economy. The world needs to cooperate closely instead of blaming each other. The "1+6" Roundtable dialogue sent a positive signal to jointly respond to challenges, shape an inclusive, win-win economic globalization, and build an open world economy. It also shows that China maintains the multilateral trading system and strengthens its relationship with the international market. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)