The Omicron variant is now suspected to be responsible for up to 10 percent of new confirmed COVID-19 cases in France and is the main reason behind plans for stricter health requirements for entering some venues, French Health Minister Olivier Veran said on Saturday. The new vaccination pass set to be introduced early next year will require people to show proof of vaccination to enter restaurants and long-distance public transport. Under the current regulations, a recent negative COVID-19 test is sufficient for entering many indoor public places. The health minister also said that he expected that the authority will give the permission to start offering vaccinations to children aged 5 to 11 early next week. For now, only children with serious health conditions or additional health risks can be given the shots. Plans for the new pass were announced by Prime Minister Jean Castex on Friday. He likened the spread of the Omicron variant in Europe to "lightning," adding that it would be the dominant strain in France from the start of 2022. Castex said that while much remains unknown about the variant, "it does not seem to be more dangerous than the Delta variant and the data available to us indicate that complete vaccination coverage with the booster dose protects well against severe forms of the disease." Starting Saturday, travelers will need to show a compelling reason to travel between Britain and France, under shock new rules announced on Thursday by France to combat the Omicron variant of COVID-19. The only exemptions for needing a compelling reason are for French and European travelers returning to France and British passengers heading in the other direction. France on Thursday justified the new rules as being "faced with the extremely rapid spread of the Omicron variant in the UK" and to give time for its own booster program to find the upper hand against the variant. Castex called on local authorities to cancel fireworks and concerts on New Year's Eve to limit the spread of coronavirus, and said the consumption of alcohol on public roads will be outlawed during the celebrations. (With input from Reuters, AFP)