2021 has come to an end and a lot of things have happened. In this article, we summarize some big news about pandas that CGTN has reported in 2021. Let's check out the big panda moments in 2021! January First wild giant panda caught on camera in 2021 A wild giant panda in the Tangjiahe National Nature Reserve in southwest China's Sichuan Province was the first caught on camera in 2021.The panda was filmed at 5:30 p.m. on January 13, 2021, at the Motianling Conservation Station of the reserve. February Baby pandas in SW China celebrate Chinese New Year Fourteen baby pandas at Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding made a Chinese Lunar New Year greeting and sent their best wishes to people across the country. March Wild panda searches for mate in nature park For most of the year, giant pandas stay within a small radius to eat and sleep. But in March and April during their estrus period, they move to new areas to find mates. Happy Panda Day Giant pandas are one of the cutest bears in the world. They are known for their black and white fur and lazy playful attitude. April Adorable panda having a feast at Beijing Zoo This adorable panda is a resident at Beijing Zoo. On April 26, tourists captured moments of it gorging on bamboo shoots, a favorite food of pandas. May The world's only captive brown panda meets the public The world's only captive brown panda met the public when a science park in Zhouzhi County, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, opened on May 28. June Malaysia Fertile Pandas: Record-breaking pair produce 3rd cub A pair of giant pandas whose fertility has consistently broken world records had another rare success – a third cub born in the space of just seven years. July Giant pandas no longer 'endangered' species China has officially downgraded the beloved animals to "vulnerable," indicating a lower level of existential risk. World's heaviest captive panda cub born in southwest China The world's heaviest captive panda cub was born at the Hetaoping Wolong Panda Center in southwest China's Sichuan Province on July 27. The cub weighed 249 grams at birth. August U.S.-born panda cub Xiao Qi Ji turns one U.S-born giant panda cub Xiao Qi Ji celebrated his first birthday at the Smithsonian’s National Zoo in Washington D.C., U.S. September Twin baby pandas make public debut 100 days after birth in Chongqing Doubling The Joy: Twin panda cubs at a zoo in China's Chongqing made their debut at 100 days. October China to formally establish its first national parks including Giant Panda National Park China on October 12 announced it would formally establish its first batch of national parks. Sanjiangyuan National Park, Wuyi Mountain National Park, Giant Panda National Park, Northeast China Tiger and Leopard National Park and Hainan Tropical Rainforest National Park are among the parks on the list. The national park system aims to end the segmented management of a nature reserve that covers multiple provinces so that the integrity of wild animals' habitat can be guaranteed. November Names of panda cubs at French zoo revealed by Mbappe and Zhang Jiaqi The names of the two baby pandas at Beauval Zoo were revealed in central France on November 18 by Chinese Olympic gold medalist Zhang Jiaqi and French football star Kylian Mbappe. More than 122,000 French netizens voted to choose Huan Lili and Yuan Dudu from five pairs of names for the panda twin cubs. December Giant panda twins at French zoo make public debut Giant panda twin cubs Yuan Dudu and Huan Lili on Saturday made their public debut at Beauval Zoo in central France. Since their birth on August 2, they've been carefully looked after. 2022 is coming! Let's move forward and expect more from cute pandas! (The cover photo is via CFP) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)