China's whole-process people's democracy involves complete institutional procedures, said a white paper released on Saturday by the State Council Information Office. In China, the people's status as masters of the country is the bedrock of all the systems of the country, and underlies the operation of all the systems for state governance, according to the white paper titled "China: Democracy That Works." Whole-process people's democracy involves complete institutional procedures, the white paper said, adding that these well-coordinated and comprehensive institutional procedures serve to put into place diverse, open and well-organized democratic channels to ensure that the Communist Party of China's policies and the state will be integrated with the people's aspirations, and that the people are masters of the country. The system of people's congresses is China's fundamental political system, and the ultimate approach and optimal solution to guaranteeing the people's status as masters of the country. It is also an important institutional support to whole-process people's democracy, the white paper said. China's regional ethnic autonomy is one under the unified leadership of the state. Territorial integrity and national unification are preconditions and foundations for regional ethnic autonomy, which combines unification with autonomy and ethnic factors with regional factors and are thoroughly suited to China's realities, the white paper said. Regional ethnic autonomy provides institutional and policy guarantees to ensure that ethnic minority citizens enjoy rights to equality and freedom, and to economic, social and cultural services, it added. The white paper said China applies a system of community-level self-governance represented by villagers autonomy, urban residents autonomy and employees congresses. Under the leadership and support of community-level Party organizations, local residents directly exercise the democratic right to manage their own affairs by serving the community, undertaking self-education and exercising public scrutiny.