As the Omicron variant caught countries across the world off guard and prompted many of them to reinstate travel restrictions amid surging infections, China's "dynamic zero-COVID" policy has provided the country with pre-emptive defense against the threat. The approach, once questioned by Western media at a time when many countries pivoted to "living with the virus" and eased restrictions, has stood vindicated and is gaining global recognition, according to health experts including China's top epidemiologist Zhong Nanshan. What does China's 'dynamic zero-COVID' policy mean? In some Western media's coverage, China's "zero-COVID" strategy sounded dreadful and extreme, which signified "not a single infection is acceptable." But is it true? Liang Wannian, head of the expert team on COVID-19 response and disposal at the National Health Commission (NHC), refuted the idea and further clarified the strategy at a press briefing last Saturday. "'Dynamic zero-COVID' does not mean 'zero infection,' as currently we are unable to ensure that not a single local case occurs," Liang said. It is China's overall guideline for COVID-19 prevention and control, which refers to a slew of measures to swiftly stamp out new outbreaks when they happened, he clarified. The gist is to cut off the spread of new infections as soon as possible, instead of just letting go of the situation and allow it to run out of control, he added. "We have the ability and confidence to quickly eliminate every new rebound whenever new cases are detected. So this is what we want to emphasize, not to pursue 'zero infection,' but to wipe out new outbreaks as soon as possible," he explained. According to Ma Xiaowei, director of the NHC, China can now contain new outbreaks within two weeks. In an interview with Xinhua in early December, he also underlined the importance of the "golden first 24 hours" from the start of an outbreak to quickly identify close contacts and cut transmissions. From a scientific point of view, the "dynamic zero-COVID" strategy involves early detection of new sources of infection, rapid response to control the spread of new infections, and effective treatment of patients to reduce severe cases and deaths, Liang elaborated. High cost or low cost? Some argue that China's stringent approach has come at a high cost. Responding to that question in an interview with CGTN in early November, Zhong Nanshan asserted that it's a relatively low-cost approach. "The cost of implementing the current 'zero transmission' strategy is quite high, indeed. But if you ignore it and just let go of the situation, the cost will be even higher," he said. The Delta variant spread very fast, and the global fatality rate of COVID-19 was about 2 percent despite the vaccination drive, which was still quite high and China could not bear it, Zhong explained. Currently, the world is grappling with the more transmissible Omicron variant, and the global mortality rate of COVID-19 hasn't changed much, according to data from the World Health Organization (WHO). Echoing Zhong's remarks, Liang told Xinhua in mid-November that China's approach is to achieve the best epidemic prevention and control effect with the minimum social cost. Since April last year, China has rapidly controlled dozens of sporadic cluster infections and effectively reduced COVID-19-related deaths, with its economic performance among the top in the world, said Liang, adding that the country has balanced the epidemic prevention and control efforts with economic and social development quite well. "It fully proves that our epidemic prevention and control measures are effective," Liang said, adding China is prioritizing people's lives and health with the policy. The current prevention and control strategy may impact the daily lives of those infected and their close contacts in the short term, but in the long run, rapid control of the epidemic will allow economic and social life to return to normal in a short time, Liang said. Zero COVID-19 death in China since January With the "dynamic zero-COVID" strategy, the Chinese mainland has not reported a single death since January, with the death toll unchanged since January at 4,636. Worldwide, the deadly pathogen has infected over 269 million people and claimed more than 5.3 million lives as of Monday, data from the WHO showed.