"Is this the start of a new era in snooker?" former snooker world champion Judd Trump asked on Twitter ahead of the UK Snooker Championship final.  Trump didn't ask so for nothing. China's 24-year-old Zhao Xintong clinched the first ranking title of his fledgling career, at the UK Championship in York Barbican with a scintillating 10-5 victory over Belgium's Luca Brecel on Sunday night. The world number 26 Chinese prospect, whose previous best result in a ranking event was a spot in the quarterfinals, displayed a maturity beyond his years and became only the fourth non-British winner of the event. "It was the biggest match for me, and it was my first time, so I tried my best because it was Luca. I feel very, very happy now. I am very excited," Zhao told reporters after the much-anticipated final, which for the first time sees two players ranked outside the top 16 go head to head. "The UK Championship is a snooker theater of dreams." Zhao swatted aside Barry Hawkins 6-1 in the semifinals and went one step further by securing one of snooker's biggest prizes. When asked how he will celebrate his achievement, Zhao said, "I will go home and have a good sleep. Maybe a bit of singing in a karaoke tomorrow. I will have to sing 'We are the champions.'" Six-time world champion Steve Davis was hugely impressed by the flawless performance of Zhao, who has followed in his compatriot Ding Junhui's footsteps to become an overseas winner of the tournament. "If Zhao can use this as a springboard, he can really force his way into the game strongly," said Davids. "He has got the credentials to be the first Chinese world champion. Everyone thought it might be Ding, but who is to say, Zhao might be the one to do it." "Any young players looking to play the game will think, 'He can inspire me.' He is cool, calm and collected. He has a lovely personality," Davids said. The sentiment was echoed by Brecel, who had said earlier in the tournament that Zhao was his favorite player on tour.  "He [Zhao] is so amazing; he is only 24 but looks 12. I don't think I have ever seen someone play so good for so long. He just played the same the whole way through," Brecel said. "Zhao could be the same as Neil Robertson and Judd Trump. Hopefully, I can too."