Chinese Super League (CSL) will come back behind closed doors from December 12 for the rest of the season as the country has seen a new surge in COVID-19 cases. The league is scheduled to return on Sunday, ending a four-month hiatus created to allow the Chinese national team to prioritize the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. But fans will not be allowed at any of the country's top flight matches amid coronavirus concerns. "Considering the current situation of the prevention and containment of COVID-19, and in order to ensure the public health and the smooth running of the 2021 season, the CSL has decided that the second phase of the campaign will not be open to the public for the time being," read a statement. The coronavirus has already seen the format of this year's CSL altered, with 16 teams split into two bubbles. Half of the teams are stationed in the southern city of Guangzhou and the other half in Suzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province. The first phaze of this season kicked off with much fanfare on April 20 in Guangzhou Tianhe Stadium, where 27,000 fans flocked back through turnstiles to watch the eight-time champions Guangzhou FC take on Guangzhou City in the eagerly anticipated local derby.  When spectators will be allowed back in the stands again remains unclear, but the CSL added that they will provide a further update in due course.  According to National Health Commission, the Chinese mainland reported 60 new locally transmitted COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Also reported were 23 new imported cases in eight provincial-level regions. Meanwhile, several Chinese media outlets have revealed that Chinese naturalized striker Ai Kesen (Elkeson) will follow in his teammate A Lan (Alan Carvalho)'s footsteps and leave Guangzhou FC for their native Brazil, thus missing the remainder of the season.  The Guangzhou FC have also been locked in negotiations with Brazil-born Luo Guofu (Aloisio) and English-born Jiang Guangtai (Tyias Browning) over wage reduction. The outcome of the negotiations will have a direct bearing on whether the two will continue to play for the deeply indebted club. Earlier this week, Guangzhou FC, who find themselves without a manager and in crisis after the departure of Italy's 2006 World Cup-winning captain Fabio Cannavaro, appointed 41-year-old former China international Zheng Zhi as the interim coach. "Hopefully, all the coaches, players and staff members of our club can overcome all difficulties, train hard and work hard to complete the season with a strong sense of honor, responsibility and team spirit," the club said in a statement.