The famous Geminid meteor shower will come to a peak from December 13 to 14, shooting bright stars across the sky. However, viewing could be tough, as the peak arrives before the full moon, astronomy experts say. Considered one of the best and most reliable annual meteor showers, the Geminids will be active until December 17 and peak on the night of December 13 into the morning of the 14, which is also the best time for meteor shower viewing this year, according to NASA. The Geminids and the moon 2021 The phase of the moon is a major factor in determining whether a meteor shower will have good rates during any given year as the moonlight would "wash out" the fainter meteors, resulting in sky watchers seeing fewer bright ones. When there is no interference from moonlight, skywatchers can see up to 150 meteors per hour on the night of the peak. However, due to the new moon on December 4, the peak of the shower coincides with a moon that will be almost 80 percent full and already above the horizon as darkness falls on the evening of December 13. Nevertheless, that bright moon is expected to set around 3 to 4 a.m. local time, leaving it a couple of hours of darkness for good meteor viewing before sunrise. More about the Geminids The Geminids are caused by debris from a near-earth asteroid known as 3200 Phaethon. Earth runs into Phaethon's debris stream every year in mid-December, causing meteors to fly from the direction of the constellation Gemini, hence the name "Geminids." The Geminids can be seen by most of the world. Yet, it is best viewed by observers in the northern hemisphere. Realistically, the predicated rate for observers in the northern hemisphere is closer to 30 to 40 meteors per hour. Observers in the southern hemisphere will see fewer Geminids than those in the northern hemisphere – perhaps 25 percent of rates in the northern hemisphere, according to NASA. Tips for meteor watching 1. Find a dark open sky with less light pollution. Observing in cities may still see a handful during that night. 2. Geminid meteors tend to be bold, white and quick. The brightest ones will overcome the light of the moon. 3. Be sure to leave at least one hour of observing time. It takes about 20 minutes for human eyes to adapt to the dark. 4. Layer up and bring a thermos with a warm drink to brave the cold December night! Although this year's conditions are not the best for viewing the Geminid meteor shower, it will still be a good opportunity for astrophotography lovers to capture the night skies. CGTN will broadcast a livestream of the meteor shower's peak on December 13 via a camera at Lugu Lake in southwest China's Yunnan Province, starting at 9:00 p.m. Click here to watch.