Argentinian star striker Sergio Aguero of Barcelona announced his decision to retire from football because of a heart condition at a press conference on Wednesday. "This conference is to announce I have decided to stop playing professional football," Aguero said. "It is a very difficult moment. The decision I have taken for my health; the problem I had a month and a half ago." The last time he appeared on the field was in the La Liga game against Alaves at Camp Nou on October 30. He said he experienced chest pain before being taken off in the first half. Barca finished the game with a 1-1 draw. Aguero was later diagnosed with a cardiac arrhythmia, an irregular heartbeat, which would require treatment over a three-month period. The diagnosis came only five games into his stint with Barca, which he joined on a free transfer from Manchester City. Aguero's debut for the Spanish club was delayed due to a calf injury, but it did not keep him from scoring his first goal in El Clasico against Real Madrid at Camp Nou on November 24. "I have been in good hands with the medical staff. I made the decision 10 days ago after doing everything possible to have some hope of playing on. I am very proud for my career. I always dreamed of a professional career since the first time I touched a ball at 5," Aguero said. Born with incredible talent and passion for football, Aguero departed Argentina for Europe in 2006 and signed with Atletico Madrid. He scored 102 goals in 234 games for the Spanish club. He also led Atletico to win the UEFA Europa League championship and the UEFA Super Cup title in 2010. Manchester City brought Aguero to the Premier League in 2011 and the Argentinian star reached the summit of his career at Etihad Stadium. He scored 260 goals for City in 360 games and helped the club win five Premier League titles and one FA Cup championship. "I want to thank Atletico Madrid, who took a chance on me when I was 18, and Manchester City, everyone knows who I feel about City and how well they treated me there," Aguero said. "King Kun. Everyone at Manchester City would like to take this opportunity to thank @aguerosergiokun for his incredible contribution to our success over the last decade and wish him well in his retirement," City posted on Twitter.