Eighty years ago on December 30, 1940, the first radio station created by the Communist Party of China (CPC) broadcast for the first time under the name of XNCR (X being the English letter of the call sign of China's radio stations under international regulations at that time and NCR standing for New Chinese Radio). The predecessor of today's China National Radio (CNR) of the China Media Group (CMG), XNCR reported on important documents, articles and editorials of the CPC and on international and domestic current affairs. International media outlets have expressed their warm congratulations on the 80th anniversary. "Since its establishment, XNCR has emphasized that it takes a fair and objective perspective as the starting point for information dissemination, and is committed to spreading the truth to the world, conveying the voice of justice, and conveying the beauty of different civilizations," said Alberto Bradanini, president of Center for Contemporary Chinese Studies in Italy, in his congratulatory letter. Adrian Wells, managing director of European News Exchange (ENEX), said, "Over those 80 years, there've been extraordinary events, and in my opinion and that of the ENEX media partnership, it's vital that the exchange of the information from China to the rest of the world is kept as vibrant and as open as possible." "It is impressive to have seen the unequaled efforts by our Chinese colleagues," said Javad Mottaghi, secretary-general of Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union. "In my more than 45-year media career, I have taken great pleasure in communicating closely with Chinese media friends, inspired by their practical working spirit and diligence. I hope that this 80th anniversary is a landmark in many more years of great achievements ahead," Mottaghi added. Gregoire Ndjaka, CEO of the African Union of Broadcasting, said in a congratulatory video that it has seen "how we can bring together men and women, how we can bring together cultures and how we can improve our daily lives, help others to improve also." "CMG has been introducing China to the world comprehensively and objectively for decades, demonstrating China's economic achievements, cultural characteristics, humanitarian mission, and the concept of openness and tolerance in cooperation and exchanges," Russian newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta said in a letter. Speaking of the influence of the former XNCR and the CMG, the secretary-general of the Federation of Journalists in Buenos Aires, Argentina, wrote: "The voice of CMG has let us gradually realized a struggling, innovative, developing and open China, and China's ability to dialogue with the world in different languages ​​and media." "CMG shared China's experience in responding to global challenges and building a global community of life with the rest of the world," Kwak Young-kil, president of Aju News Corporation in South Korea, said in a video. "Like CMG, the Lao News Agency shoulders the important responsibility of external publicity," said the president of Khaosan Pathet Lao (Lao News Agency). "In recent years, we have conducted extensive and fruitful cooperation, contributing our share to deepening the friendship and building a Laos-China community with a shared future." "As a media leader, CMG has always recorded the achievements of the Chinese people and society," said Saugato Banerjee, managing director of A&E Television Networks Asia. "We will work together on Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics," Banerjee said. "We hope to show the new course of media revolution from the perspective of technology. With the help of 4K, 8K, artificial intelligence and mobile communication technology, everyone could be a narrator." The Ministry of Mass Media and Information of Sri Lanka, Kenya Switch TV and Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, Digital Sky Multimedia Cambodia, Hungary ATV, Global FM 94.5 Jordan also sent congratulations to CMG President Shen Haixiong. (Cover via CFP)