Sergio Ramos was sent off as Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) salvaged a 1-1 draw away at Ligue 1 strugglers Lorient thanks to Mauro Icardi's injury-time equalizer on Wednesday. In their final outing of 2021, PSG trailed in Brittany to Thomas Monconduit's thunderous first-half strike for Lorient until Icardi rescued a point with a header in the 91st minute. Ramos had come off the bench at the start of the second half for just his third appearance since moving to France from Real Madrid in the close season, but he was dismissed four minutes from time after receiving a second yellow card. PSG, with top scorer Kylian Mbappe and playmaker Marco Verratti both missing due to suspension and Neymar still out injured, produced another worryingly substandard performance that will put the focus on coach Mauricio Pochettino. The Argentine, approaching the first anniversary of his appointment, has struggled to get the very best out of PSG's array of superstar players, although they sit a huge 13 points clear of their nearest challengers Nice and Marseille at the French season's halfway stage. "In terms of results we are still in all competitions, so in that regard, we are doing fine," Pochettino said. "In terms of performances, we are still trying to get the best out of the team. The first few months of the season have been intense, with lots of traveling. We are sure that in time we will get there but we know we need to improve a lot." Two PSG players tested positive for COVID-19, and a third is in isolation, the club said on Wednesday a few hours before the match with Lorient. They are among several Ligue 1 clubs to reveal positive tests, though not at the same level as England, where a raft of matches have been postponed in the Premier League and lower divisions. PSG's two positive cases are German international defender Thilo Kehrer and the 21-year-old French midfielder Eric Junior Dina-Ebimbe. They "are subject to the appropriate health protocol," said their club. Argentine international midfielder Leandro Paredes was placed in isolation on December 21 "as a precaution," PSG said. All three played in a 3-0 French Cup win over Entente Feignies-Aulnoye on December 19. (With input from AFP)