Russian President Vladimir Putin told his U.S. counterpart Joe Biden that he would "really like" to meet him in person when they spoke via video link earlier this month, Russian media reported on Sunday. "We'll definitely meet [in person]. I would really like that," Putin said in response to Biden saying that he regrets that they did not meet each other at the Group of 20 (G20) summit in Rome in late October, TASS News Agency reported, citing a short video released on state TV channel Rossiya 1. But Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said it is too early to talk about a face-to-face meeting between Putin and Biden, calling it a "question for the future," the report said. The Russian and American presidents held a video call on Tuesday amid tensions along the Russian-Ukrainian border. In a video released on Russia's state TV on Sunday, Peskov said Putin had no particular grounds for optimism after speaking to Biden because of continued, and very serious differences between Russia and the United States over Moscow's "red lines" which it does not want the West to cross. Apart from further NATO expansion eastwards, Russia has said it does not want certain offensive weapons deployed in countries that border it, such as Ukraine. Putin told Biden that Russian troops were on Russian territory and did not pose a threat to anyone, Peskov said. "The current ... tensions and so on are being created to further demonize Russia and cast it as a potential aggressor," Peskov added. However, he said the two leaders had agreed to hold another round of talks, maybe by video link, a format the two presidents liked. Biden said on Saturday that the possibility of sending U.S. ground combat troops to Ukraine in the event of a Russian invasion was "never on the table," though the U.S. and NATO would be required to send in more forces to eastern flank NATO countries to beef up their defenses. Putin and Biden held a face-to-face meeting in Geneva on June 16 – their first meeting in person since Biden took office. (With input from Reuters)