Tributes poured in for four-time Grand Slam champion Manolo Santana after the announcement of his death on Saturday at the age of 83. The well-respected tennis trailblazer, who passed away at his home in the Costa del Sol resort of Marbella, was the first Spanish player to win one of the four major titles at the French Open in 1961 before winning the trophy again in 1964. He was also the first Spaniard to win Wimbledon in 1966 after being crowned U.S. Open champion in 1965. Twenty-time Grand Slam winner Rafa Nadal joined the rest of the sports world in paying tribute to Santana, hailing him as "a role model, a friend and someone who was close to all of us." In a message posted to Twitter, Nadal, who once declared that Santana was the pioneer and  inspiration for him, said "You will always be one of a kind and special. As I have said many times in the past, a thousand thanks for what you did for our country and for opening the way for others." 'We will miss you Manolo. A hug to your family and a lot of strength at this time. We will never forget you," he said. The sentiment was echoed by the 39-time Grand Slam champion Billie Jean King, who recalled the days when she won the women's singles title at Wimbledon alongside Santana's men's singles triumph. "The great Manolo Santana has passed away," the American said on Twitter. "He & I won our 1st #Wimbledon singles titles in 1966 ... We danced the 1st dance at the Ball. He loved the sport, & we shared many conversations over the years. Condolences to his family." Spanish King Felipe VI joined in the flood of condolences, writing via Twitter. "There are people who become legends and make a country great. Manolo Santana was and will always be one of them," he wrote. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez also gave an impassioned response to Santana's death. "He (Santana) won Roland Garros, the U.S. Open and Wimbledon, a total of 72 tournaments and an Olympic gold to make him a tennis legend and one of the best athletes our country has seen. My sincere condolences to Manolo Santana's family, his loved ones and the world of tennis." The Spanish Olympic Committee said, "With heavy hearts we say goodbye today to Manolo Santana, a legend and a pioneer of tennis. Sports owes you a lot Manolo. We will never forget you." Real Madrid, the football powerhouse that Santana supported as a child, gave a nuanced appreciation.  "Real Madrid FC, its President and its Board of Directors sincerely regret the death of Manolo Santana, one of the great legends of tennis and Spanish sport, winner of four Grand Slams, as well as many other trophies," read a statement.  "Real Madrid would like to express its condolences and its affection to all his family and loved ones. Manolo Santana is one of the greatest all-time tennis players, as well as a passionate madridista and a staunch representative of our values throughout his career." "His love for the club inspired him to win Wimbledon in 1966 in the Real Madrid shirt, making him the first Spanish tennis player to win this Grand Slam."