A U.S. federal appeals court on Thursday rejected a request by former President Donald Trump to withhold records from the House of Representatives probe of the deadly January 6 attack on the Capitol, saying he had provided "no basis" for his request. "Former President Trump has provided no basis for this court to override President (Joe) Biden's judgment," a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit wrote. The court unanimously rejected the arguments by the former president's lawyers that their client could assert executive privilege to prevent the current administration from sharing the Trump White House's documents with the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6 Attack. "The central question in this case is whether, despite the exceptional and imperative circumstances underlying the Committee's request and President Biden's decision, a federal court can, at the former President's behest, override President Biden's decision not to invoke privilege and prevent his release to Congress of documents in his possession that he deems to be needed for a critical legislative inquiry," Judge Patricia Millett wrote in a 68-page opinion for the panel. "Both Branches agree that there is a unique legislative need for these documents and that they are directly relevant to the Committee's inquiry into an attack on the Legislative Branch and its constitutional role in the peaceful transfer of power." Trump has argued that the materials requested by the House committee were covered by the executive privilege legal doctrine that protects the confidentiality of some White House communications. While, U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan on November 9 rejected Trump's arguments, saying he had not acknowledged the "deference owed" to Biden's determination that the committee could access the records. adding: "Presidents are not kings, and the Plaintiff is not President." The court said the transfer of the records could begin in 14 days, before which Trump is allowed to ask the Supreme Court to intervene in the case. (With input from Xinhua and Reuters)