China and Nicaragua signed Friday in Tianjin the joint communiqué on the resumption of diplomatic relations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Nicaragua. The communiqué was signed by Ma Zhaoxu, Chinese vice foreign minister, and Laureano Ortega Murillo, representative from the government of Nicaragua. Here is the full text: The People's Republic of China and the Republic of Nicaragua, in keeping with the interests and desire of the two peoples, have decided to recognize each other and resume diplomatic relations at the ambassadorial level, effective from the date of signature of this communiqué. The two Governments agree to develop friendly relations between the two countries on the basis of the principles of mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other's internal affairs, equality, mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence. The Government of the Republic of Nicaragua recognizes that there is but one China in the world, the Government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legal Government representing the whole of China, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. The Government of the Republic of Nicaragua shall sever "diplomatic relations" with Taiwan as of this day and undertakes that it shall no longer develop any official relations or official exchanges with Taiwan. The Government of the People's Republic of China appreciates this position of the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua. The Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua have agreed to exchange Ambassadors as early as possible and to provide each other with all the necessary assistance for the establishment of diplomatic missions and their performance of functions in each other's capitals on a reciprocal basis in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 and international customary practices. The undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, signed this communiqué on December 10, 2021 in Tianjin. Done in duplicate in the Chinese and Spanish languages, both texts being equally authentic.