Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday said China's determination to support multilateralism will not change, in a speech delivered via video at the opening ceremony of the 2021 Imperial Springs International Forum (ISIF). "China will firmly stand by the core values and basic principles of multilateralism, pursue mutual benefit, seek common ground while reserving differences, uphold fairness and justice, and promote development through cooperation," said Xi. Multilateralism is essentially about having international affairs managed by all parties through consultation and the future of the world decided by all countries working together, he said. "We need to pull together in solidarity and act on true multilateralism," said Xi. He also stressed the importance of upholding the international system with the United Nations at its core, the international order underpinned by international law and the basic norms of international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. Xi said it is also important to promote humanity's common values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom. He called for continuous efforts to improve the global governance system and pointed out the importance of keeping to the overall direction of advancing democracy in international relations, increasing the representation and voice of developing countries in international relations, and steering the global governance system toward greater justice and equity. Xi also urged more action to follow through with the global cooperation agenda. He said he hopes that more will take an active part in the Global Development Initiative he has proposed, which is aimed at speeding up the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and building a global community of development with a shared future. It is important for all to commit to development as a priority, advance cooperation on poverty alleviation, COVID-19 response and vaccines, development financing, green transition and connectivity, and usher global development into a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth, said Xi. He noted that one important piece of historical experience gained from the endeavors of the Communist Party of China, which celebrated its centenary this year, is to maintain a global vision and bear in mind the future of humanity. "China will contribute its wisdom and strength to the progress of human civilization," he said. Themed "Multilateralism 2.0: Global Cooperation in the Post-Pandemic Era," the 2021 ISIF is being held in a hybrid format both online and on-site from Sunday to Monday, with over 160 attendees from political, academic, and business circles of more than 30 countries. Inaugurated in 2014, ISIF says it is a new type of high-end platform for China to conduct in-depth discussions on world peace, economic development and cultural exchanges with the rest of the world to promote greater understanding and consensus. (Cover: The 2019 Imperial Springs International Forum installation in Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China. /CFP)