Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on Friday exchanged congratulatory messages on the coming New Year. The two leaders vowed to further promote the development of China-Russia relations. China is ready to work with Russia to lead the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era to achieve steady and long-term development and upgrade bilateral cooperation in all areas, Xi said. Noting that China and Russia are set to host the Year of Sports Exchanges in 2022, he said the two countries will write a new chapter of China-Russia friendship. "President Putin will visit China and attend the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympic Games. I look forward to staying in close contact with him through various means," Xi said. 2021 marked the 20th anniversary of the signing of the China-Russia Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation. In a meeting via video earlier this year, Xi and Putin issued a joint statement, officially extending the treaty. Noting that the two countries have promoted all-round practical cooperation against the COVID-19 pandemic, Xi highlighted the successes of the China-Russia Year of Scientific and Technological Innovation, and cooperation achievements in several areas including trade, energy, aerospace, and connectivity. Putin said that in 2021, Russia-China cooperation was fruitful, with both sides actively conducting political dialogue at all levels and bilateral trade volume hitting a new high. "I am confident that our Chinese friends will successfully host the Beijing Winter Olympics, and I look forward to meeting President Xi at the opening of this great sporting event," he said. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and his Russian counterpart Mikhail Mishustin also exchanged New Year greetings. Reviewing the 26th regular meeting between the two sides, they agreed to continue to maintain close working contact and jointly promote pragmatic cooperation between the two countries.