Many cities and provinces in China have revised their regulations to provide additional holidays and maternity leaves to encourage parents for more childbirths. The new regulations also allow parents in some provinces and cities to spend more time with their toddlers until they reach the age of three years. Depending on their location, women are now eligible for 128 to 190 days of maternity leave, while new fathers can avail of paternity leave ranging from seven to 30 days. New mothers have now had their paid maternity leave extended from 128 days to 158 days in Shanghai. And parents are also entitled to five days of paid parental leave every year until their child turns three years old. Some mothers told CGTN that they are delighted with the new policy, adding that the revised policy allows them to have more time with their children. A woman surnamed Li also noted that she considers having a second child. Demographers have called for more supportive measures to encourage births and address the country's dwindling population growth. According to the recently released China Statistical Yearbook 2021, the birthrate was around 8.5 births per thousand in 2020, the lowest level since 1978. Experts say the new policies may have come in at just the right time. China adopted the two-child policy in 2015 as there was a baby boom between 2016 and 2018 when birth numbers reached a peak, said Gu Wei, a chief physician at the International Peace Maternity and Child Health Hospital in Shanghai. A majority of these mothers were aged above 35, at that time, with a strong desire of having a second child. "However, after those three years, especially since 2020 when the outbreak started, the birthrate has been on the decline, also partly due to the high pressure of work. Since the introduction of the three-child policy, we haven't seen that many mothers with their third child. Not as expected, women are no longer want more children," Gu said. The cities including Beijing, Shanghai, and Chongqing have adapted their policies to boost childbirth. Such decisions signal a positive response to the revised family planning policy that encourages couples to have three children. However, some mothers have concerns over their careers. An employee surnamed Huang, now pregnant with her first child, is a case in point. The Human Resources personnel have informed her that she cannot take the leave as the company has not released the detailed regulations to implement the new policy. The series of new policies have already impacted companies' recruitment decisions. Industry experts say there is a clear polarization emerging. Companies prefer either young fresh graduates or women who already have children. Still, women maintain unique employment advantages in certain areas. George Song, the partner of G&E Human Resources Consulting, said, "Women have more patience, empathy and are more expressive, while people having good patience and perseverance are more qualified for the service and labor-intensive industries. Therefore in departments like public relations, client services, human resources, and administration, women still take up around 70 percent of the jobs." Song also suggested providing more support to companies and employers to ensure job market stability for couples planning childbirth. Increasing the birth rate and improving childcare services require a plan that meets the interests of everyone concerned.