Editor's note: Xin Ping is a commentator on international affairs, writing regularly for CGTN, Xinhua News Agency, Global Times, etc. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. On Nov. 30, Dovile Sakaliene, a member of Lithuanian Parliament, posted her photo with Tsai Ing-wen on Twitter during her visit with a handful of Lithuanian, Estonian and Latvian lawmakers to Taiwan, China. "Two women sanctioned by #PRC for loving freedom and standing up to communism," she tweeted. Sakaliene seemed to enjoy so much attention to her trip that she posted her photos with nearly everyone she met in Taiwan. She is sanctioned by China, correct. She is sanctioned for "loving freedom," wrong. Freedom is a common value for all humanity and thus one of China's core values as a nation. More than a century ago, China was almost deprived of its basic right of freedom due to Western powers' aggression. That makes China all the more value and fully embrace freedom. There is no antithesis between freedom and China's political system. Sakaliene is sanctioned not because of her self-boasting as a champion of freedom, but because of the nasty disinformation campaign in which she has engaged and her harmful actions against China's sovereignty. She and the so-called Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC), a Cold War-minded organization she co-chairs, which is funded by military-industrial complexes, have spread too many rumors on so-called Chinese mainland's "threats" to Taiwan and "Uygur genocide." What Sakaliene is doing is not for defending freedom but for seeking political gain and creating opportunities for military-industrial complexes by heightening confrontation with China. Besides Sakaliene, there are others who use Taiwan to pull publicity stunts to get noticed. Raphael Glucksmann, a member of European Parliament sanctioned by China, has also gained some attention for his hard line on China. There is one thing in common between Glucksmann and Sakaliene: both show extremely "passionate" interests in China's domestic affairs and focus much less on the well-being of their own people. During his visit to Taiwan, Glucksmann said the island was a "laboratory and a hub for the fight against foreign interference." Foreign interference, yes, orchestrated and conducted by Glucksmann himself. In fact, Taiwan is not the only laboratory for Glucksmann's interference in other nations' internal affairs under the pretext of democracy and freedom. He also overreached and meddled in Georgia and Ukraine, when he worked as adviser of former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili and former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, both of whom came to power through U.S.-supported color revolutions. Interestingly enough, Eka Zguladze, his ex-wife, took posts as deputy minister of internal affairs in Georgia (2006-2012) and Ukraine (2014-2016). Glucksmann also founded "Cercle de I'Oratoire," a pro-U.S. think tank focusing on "defending U.S. policy in the French public opinion and fighting against anti-Americanism." Now, the expert of foreign interference has brought his expertise to Taiwan. The Taiwan question is not about freedom or democracy. It is all about the territorial integrity of a sovereign country. The current situation alongside the Taiwan Straits is the result of China's Civil War in the 1940's and, unfortunately, blatant U.S. interference in China's reunification progress. Taiwan is part of China, just like Corsica is part of France, Quebec of Canada, and Catalonia of Spain. For Lithuania, this should be much easier to understand – they lost Vilnius, their capital, in 1919, and they finally took it back. No nation would be scared of upholding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory, not a tool of political grandstanding and laboratory for foreign interference. People may wonder, are politicians like Sakaliene and Glucksmann purely "fighting for Taiwan's freedom," or are they actually being used as political pawns in a bigger anti-China campaign led by some Western powers? The people who sustain the worst losses are usually those who overreach, including all those who think they are calculating enough to play the "Taiwan card." (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)