Professional weightlifters normally bow out by the age of 37, and some step away from the cutthroat world of elite sports long before that, but Lyu Xiaojun has something else in mind. The odds were against the Chinese veteran when he chose to step onto the biggest stage that sport provides for the third time, pitting himself against the cream of the crop in the Tokyo Olympics.  Years of high-intensity activities and injuries took a toll on the aging body. It didn't matter that Lyu was in implausibly rude health – he maintained strict diet regime, supplemented national team training sessions with a personal workout plan, and had the chiseled six-pack abs of a supreme Greek warrior. Vigorous conditioning can only mitigate the inevitable decline in muscle strength and endurance. However, Lyu, who last won an Olympic gold medal nearly a decade ago in London, seemed to be immune to the ravages of time. In an epic men's 81 kg final, he showed no signs of wear and tear and defied the odds to lift 170 kg in the snatch and 204 kg in the clean and jerk for a total of 374 kg. Though Lyu fell short of setting a new world record, the extraordinary performance was enough for him to break the Olympic record and earn the distinction of being the oldest weightlifter to win an Olympic gold. The father of two daughters, Lyu revealed his family sacrificed a lot to support him, but he won't be calling time on his career just yet. "This is not my last competition," he told reporters in Tokyo. "If you see me at the World Championships next year, you will see me in Paris in 2024." Lyu belongs to the growing list of sports veterans who seemed to age in reverse in 2021 thanks to unparalleled professionalism, astounding resilience and advances in sports science. At age 50, American Phil Mickelson became the oldest major winner in golf history after capturing the 103rd PGA Championship by two strokes for his sixth and most surprising title. The world number 115, who last won a major back in 2013, produced a breathtaking display at Kiawah Island while his younger rivals struggled to keep pace. While doubters waited for Mickelson to fail at certain stage, he kept his nerve throughout and etched his name in golf's historical record with an incredible victory. "I don't know how to describe the feeling of excitement and fulfillment and accomplishment to do something of this magnitude when very few people thought that I could," said an emotional Mickelson. "I hope that others find that inspiration. It might take a little extra work, a little bit harder effort to maintain physically or maintain the skills, but gosh, is it worth it in the end." "There's no reason why I or anybody else can't do it at a later age," he added. It's a sentiment echoed by ageless National Football League (NFL) legend Tom Brady, who has never hidden his ambition to claim another Super Bowl championship despite leaving the illustrious New England Patriots for the underdog Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the off-season. And he has done it yet again. By routing the defending champions Kansas City Chiefs 31-9, Brady, who was the oldest ever to play in a Super Bowl at age 43, won his record-extending seventh Vince Lombardi trophy with his new team. In a game billed as a clash of quarterbacks, Brady has been almost flawless, outclassing his much younger rival Patrick Mahomes and completing 20 of 26 passes through the first three quarters. He was named the Super Bowl's most valuable player for a record fifth time and also became only the second quarterback to win titles with two different franchises. "We had a rough month of November, but we came together at the right time," said Brady before declaring his aim to return to NFL's biggest stage next season. "We'll come back. Yeah, we'll come back." Not to be outdone, Helio Castroneves also proved age is just a number. The 46-year-old Brazilian won a record-tying fourth Indianapolis 500 in front of a sellout crowd at the famed 4 km Indianapolis Motor Speedway oval. As one of the oldest drivers in the field, Castroneves, who also won in 2001, 2002 and 2009, managed to resist the recent trend of young stars taking over IndyCar, and came out on top in a thrilling race after a 12-year dry spell. The victory put Castroneves in one of racing's most exclusive clubs. He joins Rick Mears, A. J. Foyt and Al Unser Sr. as the only drivers to win the Indy 500 four times in the race's 105-year history. "Never stop believing in yourself. I know it sounds cliche; however, even for someone that has been in the sport for a long time, people tend to put labels," said a tearful Castroneves. "Doesn't matter if it's age, color or gender. You can prove them wrong if you believe in yourself. And I love that way because we were able to do something with completely odds down, not in our favor. And we just turned things around because we knew what we could do." And as Castroneves rolled back the clock, the feats he and his fellow old-timers pulled off in 2021 will surely be remembered forever. "Tom Brady won the Super Bowl. Phil Mickelson won the PGA. The old guys still got it," beamed Castroneves. "We're still kicking the young guys' butt. We'll teach them a lesson. We've still got it." For all the doubts and uncertainty during these trying times, the legends live on.