The Chinese mainland said on Wednesday that the Straits Forum held last weekend in Xiamen in southeast China's Fujian Province yielded fruitful results, showing the trend of cross-strait communication and cooperation. "Despite the epidemic and hindrances, the Straits Forum was held on a grand scale, with participation from many Taiwan compatriots," said Ma Xiaoguang, spokesperson for the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council. Some 10,000 people joined the forum online and in-person and nearly half were from the Taiwan region. In the business cooperation meeting alone, some 15 deals were signed worth more than 3.7 billion yuan ($580 million). And an online study camp on traditional Chinese culture drew some 100,000 participants from Taiwan. "I want to reiterate that we will not change our stance of welcoming and supporting Taiwan compatriots and companies to invest in the mainland," Ma said. The mainland is willing to share development opportunities, offer more equivalent treatment and deepen common development that benefits people across the straits. However, Ma made clear Beijing's stance on banning enterprises that supported secessionists in Taiwan. "We will not allow enterprises and their owners related with the stubborn Taiwan secessionists (to) make profits in the mainland," he said. He said that the doors of the mainland are always open to people from Taiwan who wish to start their companies or pursue studies on the Chinese mainland. The spokesperson encouraged more communication across the straits, and he welcomed Taiwan compatriots to participate in the Beijing Winter Olympics and share the passion and happiness of the Games together. When asked to comment about the region's Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) taking part in the recent U.S. "Summit for Democracy," Ma accused the party of hypocrisy. "We ask the DPP authority: they crack down on dissidents on the island, stir up ethnic antagonism and divisions in Taiwan society. What kind of democracy is that?" he asked.