China's retail sales growth slowed in November and missed expectations, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed on Wednesday, as new COVID-19 outbreaks hit the economy despite the big Double 11 online shopping festival. Retail sales, a gauge of consumer spending in the world's most populous country, grew by 3.9 percent last month from a year earlier. The figure was down from an increase of 4.9 percent in October, and was below the prediction of a 4.6-percent rise by both Reuters and Bloomberg. "Generally speaking, the national economy maintained the recovery momentum in November and the major macro indicators stayed within a reasonable range," NBS spokesperson Fu Linghui said in a press conference (link in Chinese). "However, we must note that the international environment is increasingly complex and severe and there are still many constraints on the domestic economic recovery," Fu added. Industrial output, a measurement of activities in the manufacturing, mining and utilities sectors, increased by 3.8 percent year on year in November. This was up from a gain of 3.5 percent in October, and was above the forecast of a 3.6-percent growth by both Reuters and Bloomberg. Fixed-asset investment, a gauge of expenditure on items such as infrastructure, property, machinery and equipment, rose by 5.2 percent on an annual basis in the January-November period. It was down from the 6.1-percent growth in the January-October period, and just below the estimate of a 5.4-percent rise by both Reuters and Bloomberg. The surveyed jobless rate rose to 5 percent in November from 4.9 percent in October, according to the NBS. China has set a target unemployment rate of 5.5 percent for the whole year. China's GDP is expected to slow to 3 percent year on year in the fourth quarter of 2021 and 2.9 percent in the first quarter of 2022, with annual growth slowing from 7.8 percent this year to 4.3 percent next year, according to Nomura's forecast in early December. To shore up sluggish growth, the People's Bank of China has cut the reserve requirement ratio for major commercial banks by 0.5 percentage points, with the change taking effect on Wednesday. It marks the second such reduction this year and is expected to inject 1.2 trillion yuan (about $190 billion) worth of long-term liquidity into the market, according to the central bank.