The rapid surge of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is wreaking havoc in the English Premier League as relegation-threatened Burnley's home game against fellow strugglers Watford on Wednesday night became the third top-flight fixture called off in the past week. The decision to postpone the crucial clash less than three hours before kick-off came on the same day the UK recorded its highest number of daily COVID-19 cases ( 78,610) since the beginning of the pandemic.  Due to a significant number of positive PCR tests among the first-team squads, Manchester United's fixture at Brentford on Tuesday has already been called off, while Tottenham's match with Brighton last weekend has suffered the same fate. Saturday's Championship games at Reading, Millwall and QPR were also postponed due to COVID-19 outbreaks. And with the latest figures showing a record high of 42 positive cases across the Premier League, more matches in the coming days are under serious threat. According to multiple British media outlets, Tottenham and Leicester City have called for their match on Thursday night to be postponed as both teams are struggling to come to terms with an outbreak. Spurs are still recovering from a coronavirus outbreak that had nine players test positive last week and Leicester are currently without nine players through COVID-19 and injuries, but Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers revealed that the Premier League has rejected their request to call off their fixture. "It's disappointing because we have always wanted to support all the measures but when we need a little support with the extreme situation we find ourselves in we weren't able to get it," Rodgers said in a press briefing.  "I'm sure there will have been games called off with less players than we have unavailable. It would be nice if there was a bit more clarity around the issue of how many players need to be unavailable," he added. The frustration was echoed by Rodgers' Chelsea counterpart Antonio Conte. "The Premier League didn't want to postpone the game against Leicester. Maybe because we postponed two games before … against Burnley and Brighton. I can understand, we can understand," he told a press conference. "The problem is the way that COVID affects your body and surely we have to pay great attention to have the right training sessions. The players need a bit of time to be fit and get into a good physical condition. "It's not fair we have to pay for a situation that isn't our fault. It's a really strange situation because we didn't play through no fault of our own but because of a big problem and because the government decided to close our training ground." Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp, meanwhile, pointed out that greater transparency is needed under the current circumstances.  "I don't understand why we are not more open," Klopp told Sky Sports. "A lot of people catch COVID at the moment and that is how it is. If I catch it, and hopefully not, I would be completely fine to tell people I have it. Why do we hide it? If people don't know they can doubt it or whatever. That is why I think a bit more transparency would be helpful." Norwich boss Dean Smith called on the Premier League to give more clarity on exactly what triggers a game to be postponed. Under current rules, matches should be played unless clubs have fewer than 14 first-team players. But exceptions could be made, with the Premier League stressing that "each decision is taken on a case-by-case basis." The English top-flight didn't respond to the growing unrest and anxiety among elite clubs, but it confirmed that all players and staff will have to take a lateral flow test every time they enter their club's training ground. It also announced new rules for fans on Wednesday.  A statement from the Premier League said, "From Wednesday 15 December, all those aged 18 and over attending Premier League matches must complete a COVID status self-declaration via their club's website ahead of matchday.  "Fans risk being denied entry if they are unable to show their NHS COVID Pass or proof of a negative NHS COVID test result from within the previous 48 hours, ideally as close to matchday as possible. "Supporters must not attend matches if they have any COVID-type symptoms or there is a risk of passing on COVID-19."