The Pentagon announced on Monday that no soldiers will face disciplinary action over a deadly drone strike in Kabul in August that killed 10 Afghans, including seven children. Afghanistan's Taliban government on Tuesday expressed anger at the decision and urged the U.S. to reverse its decision not to punish anyone, saying that victims' families must be compensated and the U.S. should be held accountable for its crimes. "We want the families of those who were brutally killed to be assisted with compensation. It is the demand of the people but the Americans deny it," Zabihullah Mujahid, chief spokesperson of Taliban-led administration, said in an exclusive interview with CGTN. "The U.S. has committed many similar actions in the world and now it's saying this. The U.S. has killed people in Afghanistan in the last 20 years. It is an ethical responsibility," he added. Besides Mujahid, victims' family members and local residents are also demanding justice and calling for U.S. troops to be punished. "America had promised to compensate us, the wrongdoers would be brought to justice and they would evacuate us. It must fulfill its promises now," Ajmal Ahmadi, a brother of one of the victims, told CGTN. "Every time they come with new alibis. The U.S. is the world's superpower and it has to fulfill the promises it have made," he added. An international court should also be formed in order to deliver an impartial ruling, local residents urged. "There should be an impartial body that could investigate all the relevant issues and see if America has committed crimes. The reasons must be investigated. Those who have conducted the attack must be punished," local resident Jaihoon Ahmad told CGTN. The U.S. military launched the strike on August 29 in the last days of leading an evacuation from Kabul. Zemari Ahmadi, an employee of U.S.-based Nutrition and Education International (NEI), was killed as well as nine members of his family. In a statement, NEI founder and president Steve Kwon said that the decision not to punish anyone for the deadly strike is "shocking." "How can our military wrongly take the lives of 10 precious Afghan people, and hold no one accountable in any way?" Kwon was quoted as saying by CNBC. Earlier, the Pentagon promised to pay compensation, but that has yet to be seen.