The China-Laos railway, an over 1,000-kilometer-long cross-border railway connecting the city of Kunming in southwest China's Yunnan Province with the capital of Laos, Vientiane, is set to be inaugurated in December. The completion of the China-Laos Railway has not only boosted the economic development of the regions along the route, but also connected many beautiful tourist cities, making travel more convenient. The China-Laos Railway enters Laos from the China-Laos border port of Mohan and goes south to Vientiane. Along the way, there is beautiful scenery, including the winding Mekong River and natural landscapes such as tropical rainforest. Apart from Lao's natural beauty, cities like Luang Prabang are also along the railway. The Royal Palace is might be the first stop of Luang Prabang tourism. The Royal Palace Museum in Luang Prabang, Laos, was built in 1904 as the residence of King Sisavanpong. It served as a royal residence until 1975 when the monarchy was abolished and the Lao People's Democratic Republic was established. Located in the center of Luang Prabang, between Mount Phousi and the Mekong River, the palace now serves as a national museum for people to visit. Its architectural style combines the classical charm of Lao motifs and French Beaux Arts styles. The cross-shaped palace is built on a multi-story platform with luxurious decoration. In the entrance hall, various royal religious implements are displayed, as well as rare Buddhist statues collected from India and Cambodia. The room in the front right corner of the palace is open to the public and displays the most valuable works of art in the museum, including Pha Bang, a standing golden Buddha. Luang Prabang is named after him. Vientiane, at the end of the China-Laos Railway, is the capital of Laos. Located in the middle reaches of the Mekong River, Vientiane is one of the few capitals in the world located near the national border. Wat That Luang is a must-see when visiting Vientiane. Located about three kilometers northeast of Vientiane, it is a group of tower buildings and enjoys a high reputation in architectural art. The main tower is 45 meters high and 54 meters wide. Legend has it, Buddha's hair and bones were buried beneath it in the 3rd century BC. The Wat That Luang has been destroyed and restored many times. It was excavated by the French School of the Far East in 1930. The existing Wat That Luang was rebuilt between 1930 and 1935. To commemorate the 2,500th anniversary of Buddhism, both the lotus-shaped base and top of Wat That Luang were decorated with gold and platinum. The Temple Fair of That Luang Festival takes place every Novembers. During this period, monks and Buddhists from all over the country come to hold religious activities.